Fatigue-related damage in UHMWPE is one of the main causes of long-term failure in total joint replacements.
Crosslinking ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) by gamma or electron-beam irradiation, in combination with prior or further thermal treatment, enhances its wear resistance against metallic components in total hip replacements, and eventually in knees.
However, little information is available on the fatigue response of this modified UHMWPE.
The objective of this study was to compare electron-beam-irradiated UHMWPE at 50, 100, and 150 kGy, with the well-known 25 kGy gamma-irradiated UHMWPE.
Two different cyclic tests were performed under tensile stress, with a zero load ratio, R = 0.
First, specimens were subjected to a sinusoidal load cycle at 1 Hz, which provided stress-life curves with the use of a failure criterion based on 12% yield strain.
Second, specimens were tested under 50 load cycles at a displacement rate of 15 mm/min, which provided information about the evolution of secant modulus and plastic strain.
The incubation period was also analyzed.
DSC measurements were carried out to check the crystallization effect of irradiation.
According to the results of fatigue resistance there was a crossover behavior between gamma- and electron-beam-irradiated UHMWPE regarding the applied stress.
When the stress was higher than the crossover value, the fatigue resistance of gamma-irradiated samples was higher than electron-beam-irradiated ones.
When the stress was lower, the fatigue behavior was the opposite.
The crossover stress depended on the electron-beam-irradiation dose.
The clinical relevance of this study lies in an improved knowledge of electron-beam-irradiated material under extreme mechanical circumstances, such as fatigue.
This study investigates the effects of axial ultrasonic vibration on the microstructure evolution, residual stresses distribution and fatigue fracture behaviour of a 7N01-T4 joint, and demonstrates that ultrasonic vibration can significantly promote the flow of plasticised metals, expand the stirred zone (SZ) width and refine the grain size.
The longitudinal residual stresses of the joints are dominant, and the peak longitudinal residual stresses of the thermo-mechanically affected zone (TMAZ) on the advancing side (AS) (TMAZ-AS) in the ultrasonic-assisted friction stir welding (UAFSW) joint are 31.5 MPa lower than those in the friction stir welding (FSW) joint.
Compared to that of FSW joints, the fatigue strength of UAFSW joints increases by 20 MPa at 10
To evaluate the bending fatigue lifetime of nickel-titanium alloy (NiTi) and stainless steel (SS) endodontic files using finite element analysis.
The strain-life approach was adopted and two theoretical geometry profiles, the triangular (TR) and the square cross-sections, were considered.
Both low-cycle fatigue (LCF) lifetime and high-cycle fatigue (HCF) lifetime were evaluated.
The bending fatigue behaviour was affected by the material property and the cross-sectional configuration of the instrument.
Both the cross-section factor and material property had a substantial impact on fatigue lifetime.
The NiTi material and TR geometry profiles were associated with better fatigue resistance than that of SS and square cross-sections.
Within the limitations of this study, finite element models were established for endodontic files to prejudge their fatigue lifetime, a tool that would be useful for dentist to prevent premature fatigue fracture of endodontic files.
The sugar mill roller shaft is one of the critical parts of the sugar industry.
It requires careful manufacturing and testing in order to meet the stringent specification when it is used for applications under continuous fatigue and wear environments.
For heavy industry, the manufacturing of such heavy parts (>600 mm diameter) is a challenge, owing to ease of occurrence of surface/subsurface cracks and inclusions that lead to the rejection of the final product.
Therefore, the identification and continuous reduction of defects are inevitable tasks.
If the defect activity is controlled, this offers the possibility to extend the component (sugar mill roller) life cycle and resistance to failure.
The current study aims to explore the benefits of using ultrasonic testing (UT) to avoid the rejection of the shaft in heavy industry.
This study performed a rigorous evaluation of defects through destructive and nondestructive quality checks in order to detect the causes and effects of rejection.
The results gathered in this study depict macro-surface cracks and sub-surface microcracks.
The results also found alumina and oxide type non-metallic inclusions, which led to surface/subsurface cracks and ultimately the rejection of the mill roller shaft.
A root cause analysis (RCA) approach highlighted the refractory lining, the hot-top of the furnace and the ladle as significant causes of inclusions.
The low-quality flux and refractory lining material of the furnace and the hot-top, which were possible causes of rejection, were replaced by standard materials with better quality, applied by their standardized procedure, to prevent this problem in future production.
The feedback statistics, evaluated over more than one year, indicated that the rejection rate was reduced for defective production by up to 7.6%.
This study investigates the influence of a rapid heat treatment followed by water-quenching on the mechanical properties of Ti6Al4V ELI alloy to improve its strength for use in implants.
Prior to the experiment, a dilatometry test was performed to understand the progressive α-to β-phase transformation taking place during heating.
The results were then used to carry out heat treatments.
Microstructure was analysed using SEM, EBSD, EDX and XRD techniques.
Vickers micro-hardness, tensile and high cycle rotating bending tests were used to analyse the influence of the $\alpha'$-phase fraction on the strength of the studied alloy.
Results show that this process can provide a Ti6Al4V ELI alloy with a better Yield Strength (YS)/uniform deformation (ε
The concept of "material effort" appears in continuum mechanics wherever the response of a material to the currently existing state of loads and boundary conditions loses its previous, predictable character.
However, within the material, which still descriptively remains a continuous medium, new physical structures appear and new previously unused physical features of the continuum are activated.
The literature is dominated by a simplified way of thinking, which assumes that all these states can be characterized and described by one and the same measure of effort-for metals it is the Huber-Mises-Hencky equivalent stress.
Quantitatively, perhaps 90% of the literature is dedicated to this equivalent stress.
The remaining authors, as well as the author of this paper, assume that there is no single universal measure of effort that would "fit" all operating conditions of materials.
Each state of the structure's operation may have its own autonomous measure of effort, which expresses the degree of threat from a specific destruction mechanism.
In the current energy sector, we are increasingly dealing with "low-cycle thermal fatigue states".
This is related to the fact that large, difficult-to-predict renewable energy sources have been added.
Professional energy based on coal and gas units must perform many (even about 100 per year) starts and stops, and this applies not only to the hot state, but often also to the cold state.
The question arises as to the allowable shortening of start and stop times that would not to lead to dangerous material effort, and whether there are necessary data and strength characteristics for heat-resistant steels that allow their effort to be determined not only in simple states, but also in complex stress states.
Do these data allow for the description of the material's yield surface?
In a previous publication, the author presented the results of tension and compression tests at elevated temperatures for two heat-resistant steels: St12T and 26H2MF.
The aim of the current work is to determine the properties and strength characteristics of these steels in a pure torsion test at elevated temperatures.
This allows for the analysis of the strength of power turbine components operating primarily on torsion and for determining which of the two tested steels is more resistant to high temperatures.
In addition, the properties determined in all three tests (tension, compression, torsion) will allow the determination of the yield surface of these steels at elevated temperatures.
They are necessary for the strength analysis of turbine elements in start-up and shutdown cycles, in states changing from cold to hot and vice versa.
A modified testing machine was used for pure torsion tests.
It allowed for the determination of the sample's torsion moment as a function of its torsion angle.
The experiments were carried out at temperatures of 20 °C, 200 °C, 400 °C, 600 °C, and 800 °C for St12T steel and at temperatures of 20 °C, 200 °C, 400 °C, 550 °C, and 800 °C for 26H2MF steel.
Characteristics were drawn up for each sample and compared on a common graph corresponding to the given steel.
Based on the methods and relationships from the theory of strength, the yield stress and torsional strength were determined.
The yield stress of St12T steel at 600 °C was 319.3 MPa and the torsional strength was 394.4 MPa. For 26H2MH steel at 550 °C, the yield stress was 311.4 and the torsional strength was 382.8 MPa. St12T steel was therefore more resistant to high temperatures than 26H2MF.
The combined data from the tension, compression, and torsion tests allowed us to determine the asymmetry and plasticity coefficients, which allowed us to model the yield surface according to the Burzyński criterion as a function of temperature.
The obtained results also allowed us to determine the parameters of the Drucker-Prager model and two of the three parameters of the Willam-Warnke and Menetrey-Willam models.
The research results are a valuable contribution to the design and diagnostics of power turbine components.
One-dimensional flexible supercapacitor yarns are of considerable interest for future wearable electronics.
The bottleneck in this field is how to develop devices of high energy and power density, by using economically viable materials and scalable fabrication technologies.
Here we report a hierarchical graphene-metallic textile composite electrode concept to address this challenge.
The hierarchical composite electrodes consist of low-cost graphene sheets immobilized on the surface of Ni-coated cotton yarns, which are fabricated by highly scalable electroless deposition of Ni and electrochemical deposition of graphene on commercial cotton yarns.
Remarkably, the volumetric energy density and power density of the all solid-state supercapacitor yarn made of one pair of these composite electrodes are 6.1 mWh cm(-3) and 1,400 mW cm(-3), respectively.
In addition, this SC yarn is lightweight, highly flexible, strong, durable in life cycle and bending fatigue tests, and integratable into various wearable electronic devices.
Many natural structures use a foam core and solid outer shell to achieve high strength and stiffness with relatively small amounts of mass.
Biological foams, however, must also resist crack growth.
The process of crack propagation within the struts of a foam is not well understood and is complicated by the foam microstructure.
We demonstrate that in cancellous bone, the foam-like component of whole bones, damage propagation during cyclic loading is dictated not by local tissue stresses but by heterogeneity of material properties associated with increased ductility of strut surfaces.
The increase in surface ductility is unexpected because it is the opposite pattern generated by surface treatments to increase fatigue life in man-made materials, which often result in reduced surface ductility.
We show that the more ductile surfaces of cancellous bone are a result of reduced accumulation of advanced glycation end products compared with the strut interior.
Damage is therefore likely to accumulate in strut centers making cancellous bone more tolerant of stress concentrations at strut surfaces.
Hence, the structure is able to recover more deformation after failure and return to a closer approximation of its original shape.
Increased recovery of deformation is a passive mechanism seen in biology for setting a broken bone that allows for a better approximation of initial shape during healing processes and is likely the most important mechanical function.
Our findings suggest a previously unidentified biomimetic design strategy in which tissue level material heterogeneity in foams can be used to improve deformation recovery after failure.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common sleep-related breathing disorder that is often treated by mandibular advancement devices (MADs).
However, conventional MADs are frequently associated with discomfort, rigidity, and limited patient compliance.
This study aimed to design and evaluate a custom-made anti-snoring device featuring a nickel-titanium (Ni-Ti) alloy elastic connector to improve comfort, durability, and clinical performance.
The device consisted of dual-layer upper and lower trays and was connected via Ni-Ti alloy rods.
Finite element analysis (FEA) was conducted to compare the stress and deformation characteristics of three materials (Ni-Ti, stainless steel, and polycarbonate).
Fatigue testing was also performed to simulate the long-term use.
A clinical simulation involving seven adult participants diagnosed with mild to moderate OSA was conducted, including a seven-day trial and a post-trial questionnaire that evaluated comfort, fit, and effectiveness.
FEA revealed that the Ni-Ti connector exhibited the most uniform stress distribution and the highest deformation capacity, indicating superior elasticity and resilience.
Fatigue tests confirmed the structural stability after 5 million cycles.
Subjective evaluations indicated the high user satisfaction and effective symptom relief; however, some discomfort related to oral dryness and temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pressure was reported.
The Ni-Ti-based anti-snoring device demonstrated favorable biomechanical properties and clinical usability.
It offers a promising alternative to traditional MADs, potentially enhancing a long-term patient compliance and therapeutic outcomes.
Further clinical validation is warranted.
Continuous carbon fiber-reinforced polyetherketoneketone (CCF-PEKK) is a thermoplastic composite with properties suitable for trauma plate applications (elastic modulus, strength, radiolucency, and inertness).
However, components manufactured by fused filament fabrication (FFF) often display non-uniform (anisotropic) mechanical properties and contain microstructural voids.
To address these limitations, we investigated a hybrid-manufacturing approach, combining FFF with continuous carbon fiber reinforcement followed by uniaxial compression molding.
Can layup orientation be tuned to replicate the mechanical stiffness of cortical bone in flexion? 2.) How does the structure of the different layups influence fracture behavior? and 3.) Do silicon nitride (Si
Ion migration is one of the most critical challenges that affects the stability of metal-halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs).
However, the current arsenal of available strategies for solving this issue is limited.
Here, novel perovskite active layers following the concept of ordered structures with functional units (OSFU) to intrinsically suppress ion migration, in which a three-dimensional (3D) perovskite layer is deposited by vapor deposition for light absorption and a 2D layer is deposited by solution process for ion inhibition, are constructed.
As a promising result, the activation energy of ion migration increases from 0.36 eV for the conventional perovskite to 0.54 eV for the OSFU perovskite.
These devices exhibit substantially enhanced operational stability in comparison with the conventional ones, retaining >85% of their initial efficiencies after 1200 h under ISOS-L-1.
Moreover, the OSFU devices show negligible fatigue behavior with a robust performance under light/dark cycling aging test (ISOS-LC-1 protocol), which demonstrates the promising application of functional motif theory in this field.
The present paper aims to analyze the microstructure, microhardness, tensile properties, and low cycle fatigue (LCF) behavior of friction stir welded (FSW) butt joints.
The material used in this study was the 5 mm thick 5083 H111 aluminum alloy sheet.
Butt joints of AA 5083 H111 were manufactured at different operating parameters of the FSW process.
The effect of the welding parameters on microstructure, microhardness, and tensile properties was investigated.
Based on microstructure analysis and strength tests, the most favorable parameters of the FSW process were settled on the point of view of weld quality.
Then, LCF tests of base material and friction stir welded specimens made of 5083 H111 were carried out for the examined welded samples under selected friction stir welding parameters.
The process of low-cycle fatigue of 5083 H111 aluminum alloy was characterized by cyclic hardening for both: base material and FSW joint.
It was revealed by a decrease in the width of the hysteresis loop with the simultaneous significant increase in the values of the range of stress.
It was determined that fatigue cracks are initiated by cyclic slip deformation due to local stress concentration from the surface in the corner of the samples for the base material and the heat-affected zone for FSW joints.
For all tested strain amplitudes, the fatigue crack propagation region is characterized by the presence of fatigue striation with secondary cracks.
Additively-manufactured Ti-6Al-4V (Ti64) exhibits high strength but in some cases inferior elongation to those of conventionally manufactured materials.
Post-processing of additively manufactured Ti64 components is investigated to modify the mechanical properties for specific applications while still utilizing the benefits of the additive manufacturing process.
The mechanical properties and fatigue resistance of Ti64 samples made by electron beam melting were tested in the as-built state.
Several heat treatments (up to 1000 °C) were performed to study their effect on the microstructure and mechanical properties.
Phase content during heating was tested with high reliability by neutron diffraction at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
Two different hot isostatic pressings (HIP) cycles were tested, one at low temperature (780 °C), the other is at the standard temperature (920 °C).
The results show that lowering the HIP holding temperature retains the fine microstructure (~1% β phase) and the 0.2% proof stress of the as-built samples (1038 MPa), but gives rise to higher elongation (~14%) and better fatigue life.
The material subjected to a higher HIP temperature had a coarser microstructure, more residual β phase (~2% difference), displayed slightly lower Vickers hardness (~15 HV
Micromechanical fatigue lifetime predictions, in particular for the high cycle fatigue regime, require an appropriate modelling of mean stress effects in order to account for lifetime reducing positive mean stresses.
Focus of this micromechanical study is the comparison of three selected fatigue indicator parameters (FIPs), with respect to their applicability to different total strain ratios.
In this work, investigations are performed on the modelling and prediction of the fatigue crack initiation life of the martensitic high-strength steel SAE 4150 for two different total strain ratios.
First, multiple martensitic statistical volume elements (SVEs) are generated by multiscale Voronoi tessellations.
Micromechanical fatigue simulations are then performed on these SVEs by means of a crystal plasticity model to obtain microstructure dependent fatigue responses.
In order to account for the material specific fatigue damage zone, a non-local homogenisation scheme for the FIPs is introduced for lath martensitic microstructures.
The numerical results of the different non-local FIPs are compared with experimental fatigue crack initiation results for two different total strain ratios.
It is concluded that the multiaxial fatigue criteria proposed by Fatemi-Socie is superior for predicting fatigue crack initiation life to the energy dissipation criteria and the accumulated plastic slip criteria for the investigated total strain ratios.
Hydroxyapatite-magnesia coatings were formed on cp-magnesium by plasma electrolytic oxidation (PEO) followed by cathodic electrodeposition (CED).
The static tensile and cyclic fatigue performance of the coated samples were investigated.
The cracking behaviour of the coatings during the tensile tests was studied by fracture analysis.
The effects of the surface treatment on the fatigue performance of the magnesium substrate were addressed.
Tensile strength of cp-Mg was not significantly affected, whereas the fatigue performance was improved by the PEO+CED coatings in the low-cycle region, possibly due to compressive residual stress induced to the metal substrate by the surface treatment.
However, reduced fatigue strength was observed in the high-cycle region, which might be attributed to the defects at the coating/substrate interface produced during the surface modification.
The in vitro corrosion reduced the fatigue strength in both the low- and high-cycle regions.
Finally, the applicability of surface engineered magnesium for biomedical applications was demonstrated from the mechanical standpoint.
In this paper, the effects of the fatigue crack initiation position (FCIP) on fatigue life are discussed.
Different modified gradient fields (MGFs) are prepared on the surface of 51CrV4 spring steel components by an ultrasonic assisted surface rolling process (USRP).
Subsequently, the fatigue behaviour of steels with different FCIPs is systematically studied.
The results show that the fatigue life of steels first exhibits an increasing tendency and then a decreasing tendency with increasing distance between an FCIP and the surface.
When an FCIP shifts from the surface of the sample to the interior, the fatigue crack initiation resistance on the interior is greater than that on the surface, which leads to an increase in fatigue life.
However, when the FCIP further shifts towards the centre of the specimen, the stress triaxiality experienced by the fatigue source gradually increases, which results in a peak in the curve of FCIP versus fatigue life.
The magnitude of this peak fatigue life is related to the change in the stress triaxiality.
Moreover, according to focused ion beam-high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (FIB-HRTEM) microstructural analysis near FCIPs, under a higher stress triaxiality, the crack tip area is subject to greater stress constraints, making the multiplication and movement of dislocations in this area more difficult, resulting in the decrease in movable dislocation density.
This decrease in dislocation density leads to an increase in the stress concentration and accelerates the crack growth rate, decreasing the fatigue life.
Therefore, the significant change in fatigue life is controlled by the MGF and stress triaxiality.
BackgroundThere are different surgical procedures to fix femoral head-neck fractures, such as total hip arthroplasty and hemiarthroplasty.
Under optimal conditions, the inserted prosthesis should last a long time, possibly a lifetime, with only trace amounts of wear each year due to the friction between the femur bone and the prosthesis stem.
However, in some cases, failure due to excessive wear, creep, fatigue, corrosion, etc., can occur.ObjectiveThis study investigates the failure causes of a Thompson hip prosthesis both experimentally and numerically.MethodsThe stem of the prosthesis, which is inserted into the femur, broke inside a patient's body over time.
Following the removal surgery, the severely damaged and fractured stem was examined to determine the root causes of the failure.
For this purpose, fractographic examination of the fractured surfaces was conducted with scanning electron microscope (SEM).
Microstructural analyses were performed using optical microscope, and the chemical composition of the prosthesis was analyzed with energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS).
Vickers hardness (HV30) test was conducted on the femoral stem.
Additionally, finite element method (FEM) was applied to estimate the forces acting on the prosthesis.ResultsIt was observed that fatigue cracks initiated and propagated from the outer surface of the femoral stem at locations very close to the maximum von Mises stresses observed in the FEM analysis.
However, the load magnitudes in the FEM analysis were not high enough to initiate any cracks.ConclusionIt is considered that crack initiation occurred due to material defects from the prosthesis manufacturing process, and the cyclic loading during body motion propagated these cracks.
Ultimately, the fracture of the Thompson hip prosthesis occurred.
The metal powder injection molding process is completed by mixing a metal powder and a binder, performing an injection molding and degreasing process, and then performing a sintering process for high density.
The disadvantage of metal powder injection molding is that defects occurring during the process affect mechanical properties, which are worse in mechanical properties than in products manufactured by cold-rolling.
In this study, the mechanical properties and microstructure of stainless steel 316L manufactured by the metal powder injection molding process were analyzed.
Mechanical properties such as density, tensile strength, and fatigue life were analyzed.
The density was measured using Archimedes' principle, and a relative density of 94.62% was achieved compared to the theoretical density.
The tensile strength was approximately 539.42 MPa and the elongation to fracture was approximately 92%.
The fatigue test was performed at 80% of maximum tensile strength and a stress ratio of R = 0.1.
The fatigue life was found in 55% (297 MPa) of maximum tensile strength that achieved 10
This work systematically investigates the high-cycle fatigue (HCF) properties and fatigue crack growth (FCG) behavior of hot-rolled dual-phase (DP) steels with comparable tensile strength but distinctly different yield strength (458 MPa for the FG sample and 355 MPa for the CG sample), grain sizes and morphologies.
Contrary to the conventional Hall-Petch relationship, the coarse-grained (CG) sample demonstrates superior fatigue performance.
This enhancement is reflected in its higher fatigue strength, combined with an elevated FCG threshold and a reduced FCG rate in the Paris regime of FCG behavior.
Fracture morphologies and FCG path analyses reveal that this enhanced fatigue resistance attributes to pronounced crack path tortuosity in the CG microstructure.
The tortuous crack path enhances roughness-induced crack closure effects in the near-threshold regime while promoting more frequent crack deflection during stable propagation, collectively reducing the effective driving force for crack growth.
The experimental evidence confirms that properly designed CG microstructures with appropriate phase distribution can provide superior fatigue resistance in hot-rolled DP steels.
The aim of this work is to verify the presence of deformation in the metal specimen from the material AISI 316L by means of lock-in thermography.
The specimen was cyclically loaded by the three-point bending in the fatigue testing machine.
A response of the specimen to such excitation can be detected in the infrared spectrum and to determine temperature changes during a loading cycle.
By means of the lock-in method, an increased signal to noise ratio (radiation energy detected by an infrared camera) was achieved.
Besides, the temperature changes were determined on the basis of amplitudes of radiant energy changes detected by the camera.
The temperature change (all radiant energy) corresponds with the first invariant of the tensor of deformation and, after a calculation and regarding the material parameters, also the invariant of the stress tensor.
The proportionality between the signal from the camera and the first deformation invariant is achieved if the specimen load is an adiabatic event.
This process is achieved by choosing a sufficiently high load frequency.
In case of a presence origin of plastic deformations, there takes place only part of radiant energy.
When we accept the hypothesis of a presence of just elastic deformations and plastic deformation is also present in the monitored process, then the evaluated thermograms based on the assumption of the presence of elastic deformation present anomalies in a distribution of the determined tensor invariant of deformations.
These anomalies are caused by a presence of plastic deformations.
Based on the anomalies, plastic deformation can be detected and subsequently analyzed.
For the tested specimen and the applied load, the calculation of stress tensor was performed.
It confirmed a congruence of results obtained by the analysis of the physical process in the infrared spectrum of the mid-wave infrared camera.
This study explores the synthesis and functionality of mesoporous UiO-66-NH
The incorporation of photochromic dyes into porous metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) is an attractive way to transfer the photochromic properties of the dye to a solid crystalline material. In this work, the well-known P-type chromophore 1,2-bis[2-methylbenzo[b]thiophen-3-yl]-3,3,4,4,5,5-hexafluoro-1-cyclopentene (DTE) is embedded in three different MOFs, namely MOF-5, MIL-68(In), and MIL-68(Ga).
The successful filling of the MOF pores with the DTE guest was proven by X-ray powder diffraction, while the amount of the embedded guest molecules was investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), liquid-state NMR and thermal analysis (DSC/TGA).
The measurements reveal an unexpectedly low filling of the MOF pores with the DTE guest (e.g. in MOF-5 only every fifth MOF pore is filled with a guest molecule) as well as an inhomogeneous loading throughout the material. Reflection spectra clearly show the transitions of the colourless open-ring and the coloured closed-ring forms of the DTE guest upon UV (λ = 365 nm), blue (λ = 405 nm) and green (λ = 535 nm) light exposure, where the latter is usually suppressed in crystalline DTE.
Remarkably, no fatigue after ten switching cycles was observed and a high thermal stability of the coloured closed-ring form (at 50 °C for 1 h) was achieved.
This work presents a multiscale, microstructure-aware framework for predicting fatigue strength distributions in additively manufactured (AM) alloys-specifically, laser powder bed fusion (L-PBF) AlSi10Mg and Ti-6Al-4V-by integrating density functional theory (DFT), instrumented indentation, and Bayesian inference.
The methodology leverages principles common to all 3D printing (additive manufacturing) processes: layer-wise material deposition, process-induced defect formation (such as porosity and residual stress), and microstructural tailoring through parameter control, which collectively differentiate AM from conventional manufacturing.
By linking DFT-derived cohesive energies with indentation-based modulus measurements and a MAP-based statistical model, we quantify the effect of additive-manufactured microstructural heterogeneity on fatigue performance.
Quantitative validation demonstrates that the predicted fatigue strength distributions agree with experimental high-cycle and very-high-cycle fatigue (HCF/VHCF) data, with posterior modes and 95 % credible intervals of σ^fAlSi10Mg=86-7+8MPa and σ^fTi-6Al-4V=115-9+10MPa, respectively.
The resulting Woehler (S-N) curves and Paris crack-growth parameters envelop more than 92 % of the measured coupon data, confirming both accuracy and robustness.
Furthermore, global sensitivity analysis reveals that volumetric porosity and residual stress account for over 70 % of the fatigue strength variance, highlighting the central role of process-structure relationships unique to AM.
The presented framework thus provides a predictive, physically interpretable, and data-efficient pathway for microstructure-informed fatigue design in additively manufactured metals, and is readily extensible to other AM alloys and process variants.
High-Mn lightweight steel, Fe-0.9C-29Mn-8Al, was manufactured using steelmaking, ingot-making, forging, and rolling processes.
After the final rolling process, a typical austenite single phase was observed on all sides of the thick plate.
The microstructural changes after annealing and aging heat-treatments were observed, using optical and transmission electron microscopy.
The annealed coupon exhibited a typical austenite single phase, including annealing twins in several grains; the average grain size was 153 μm. After aging heat treatment, κ-carbide was observed within the grains and on the grain boundaries.
Additionally, the effect of aging heat treatment on the mechanical properties was analyzed, using a tensile test.
The fine κ-carbide that precipitated within the grains in the aged coupon improved the 0.2% offset yield and the tensile stresses, as compared to the as-annealed coupon.
To estimate the applicability of high-Mn lightweight steel for low-pressure (LP) steam turbine blades, a low-cycle fatigue (LCF) test was carried out at room temperature.
At a total strain amplitude of 0.5 to 1.2%, the LCF life of high-Mn lightweight steel was approximately three times that of 12% Cr steel, which is used in commercial LP steam turbine blades.
The LCF behavior of high-Mn lightweight steel followed the Coffin-Manson equation.
The LCF life enhancement in the high-Mn lightweight steel results from the planar dislocation gliding behavior.
To evaluate and compare fracture resistance, translucency, and color reproducibility, as well as the effect of aging on the fracture load and color stability of novel monolithic CAD/CAM ceramics.
One hundred crowns of uniform thickness were milled from five ceramic blocks (n = 20): partially crystallized lithium disilicate (PLD) and fully crystallized lithium disilicate (FLD), lithium metasilicate (LMS), 4Y-TZP (SMZ), and 5Y-TZP (UMZ) monolithic zirconia.
PLD crowns were glazed, LMS was fired, and FLD was polished.
SMZ and UMZ crowns were sintered and polished.
Crowns were adhesively cemented to epoxy dies.
Half of the crowns (n = 10) were subjected to 1.200.000 load cycles with thermal cycling.
Color space values L, a, b defined by the Commission Internationale de l´Eclairage (CIELAB) were measured before and after aging, and (∆E) was calculated.
Both aged and non-aged specimens were loaded until fracture in a universal testing machine and the fracture load was recorded.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) fractographic analysis were carried out on fractured fragments of representative samples.
For translucency and color reproducibility, 50 rectangular-shaped specimens were fabricated and processed as described previously.
Color values were measured over black and white backgrounds, and the translucency parameter (TP) was computed.
Using the shade verification mode, (∆E) to shade A3 was calculated.
Data were statistically analyzed using one-way and two-way ANOVA, and t-test.
Aging did not affect fracture resistance significantly (p > 0.05).
The highest mean fracture load was obtained for the SMZ and UMZ.
A significant color change was observed after aging in all groups.
The highest TP was noted for FLD.
SMZ and UMZ had the best shade match.
Zirconia showed higher fracture resistance and color stability than lithium silicate ceramics.
Lithium silicate ceramics were more translucent.
The experimental FLD demonstrated high translucency.
Tested ceramics showed sufficient stability to withstand masticatory forces.
Characterization of final restorations might be mandatory for better color match.
Tooth fracture is a major concern in the field of restorative dentistry.
However, knowledge of the causes for tooth fracture has developed from contributions that are largely based within the field of mechanics.
The present manuscript presents a technical review of advances in understanding the fracture of teeth and the fatigue and fracture behavior of their hard tissues (i.e., dentin and enamel).
The importance of evaluating the fracture resistance of these materials, and the role of applied mechanics in developing this knowledge will be reviewed.
In addition, the complex microstructures of tooth tissues, their roles in resisting tooth fracture, and the importance of hydration and aging on the fracture resistance of tooth tissues will be discussed.
Studies in this area are essential for increasing the success of current treatments in dentistry, as well as in facilitating the development of novel bio-inspired restorative materials for the future.
The process-microstructure-property relationship of high-strength 7000 series aluminum alloys during fatigue crack propagation (FCP) is highly relevant for safety during the design and service of aircraft structural components.
It is scientifically evident that many metallurgical factors affect FCP properties, but partly contradictory or inconclusive results show that the quantitative description of the relationships is still a major challenge among researchers and engineers.
Most research focuses on sheet or plate products and investigations lack quantitative information on the process-property relationship between open-die forged thick products and FCP.
The present study contributes to this field by investigating the fatigue crack growth behavior of an open-die forged AA7010-T7452 aluminum alloy.
Four different forging conditions comprising different characteristic microstructures are comparatively analyzed.
The influence of grain size, grain shape, specimen orientation, crystallographic texture, and primary phase particles is investigated.
Fractographic analysis reveals different active damage mechanisms during fatigue crack growth.
Based on that, the microstructure features relevant to fatigue damage areidentified in each regime of crack growth.
The microstructure and properties of laser welding lap joints with different assembly gap sizes are experimentally investigated.
The laser weld joint is composed of γ-austenite and δ-ferrite, and the strip ferrite phase is mainly distributed at the austenite grain boundary.
The weld metal presents the austenitic-ferritic (AF) solidification mode.
When there is a gap between the two plates, a triangular region composed of similar equiaxed crystals can be found, and the size of the cellular crystals in this region decreases significantly.
When the assembly gap size increases from 0.1 mm to 0.4 mm, the weld penetration state of the joint changes from full penetration to semi-penetration, and the surface collapse increases.
The excessive size of the gap leads to a decrease in the tensile-shear force and fatigue strength of laser welded joints.
In order to ensure that the surface morphology and properties of the welded joint meet the quality standard and requirement, the assembly gap should be less than 0.1mm.
To compare the reliability of the disto-facial (DF) and mesio-lingual (ML) cusps of an anatomically correct zirconia (Y-TZP) crown system.
The research hypotheses tested were: (1) fatigue reliability and failure mode are similar for the ML and DF cusps; (2) failure mode of one cusp does not affect the failure of the other.
The average dimensions of a mandibular first molar crown were imported into CAD software; a tooth preparation was modelled by 1.5 mm marginal high reduction of proximal walls and occlusal surface by 2.0 mm. The CAD-based tooth preparation was milled and used as a die to fabricate crowns (n=14) with porcelain veneer on a 0.5 mm Y-TZP core.
Crowns were cemented on composite reproductions of the tooth preparation.
The crowns were step-stress mouth motion fatigued with sliding (0.7 mm) a tungsten-carbide indenter of 6.25 mm diameter down on the inclines of either the DF or ML cusps.
Use level probability Weibull curve with use stress of 200 N and the reliability for completion of a mission of 50,000 cycles at 200 N load were calculated.
Reliability for a 200 N at 50,000 cycles mission was not different between tested cusps.
SEM imaging showed large cohesive failures within the veneer for the ML and smaller for the DF.
Fractures originated from the contact area regardless of the cusp loaded.
No significant difference on fatigue reliability was observed between the DF compared to the ML cusp.
Fracture of one cusp did not affect the other.
The material response of polycrystalline materials under cyclic loading is not fully understood.
Even during uniaxial loading, individual grains embedded within the polycrystalline material can experience complicated strain histories.
By quantifying the deformation state at the crystal level, we can begin to understand the conditions that lead to fatigue failure.
An in situ powder diffraction method was developed and employed at the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source to measure the aggregate crystal response at various points in a material's life using synchrotron x ray.
A set of experiments was conducted using a load frame capable of exerting cyclic uniaxial loads on a specimen.
A high speed x-ray shutter was developed to synchronize the x-ray beam and the loading cycle.
Using the high speed shutter, the evolution of the lattice strains for the families of crystallographic planes was measured while the aggregate was under cyclic uniaxial loading, thus monitoring a live evolution of lattice strain in a cyclically loaded specimen.
The methodology is demonstrated using uniaxial cyclic specimens machined from oxygen free conductivity (OFHC) copper sheet.
Due to its excellent mechanical properties and biocompatibility, the titanium grade 23 alloy is the material of choice for dental implants.
Additive manufacturing enables patient-specific manufacturing and the reduction of stress shielding by using lattice structures instead of solid material. For the simulation and design of such structures, a comprehensive knowledge of the mechanical properties under quasi-static and cyclic loading, the microstructure, and the electrochemical properties is required.
In addition, suitable heat treatments must be selected and validated.
These properties were determined uniformly and will provide a complete database and benchmark for future applications.
The mechanical behavior of the laser powder bed fusion (PBF-LB/M) manufactured alloy Ti6Al4V in the as-built and heat-treated state was characterized in tensile and constant amplitude tests, as well as hardness and microstructure analysis.
To characterize the electrochemical properties, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and potentiodynamic polarization measurements were performed.
For use in medical implants, both conditions fulfilled the mechanical required specification in DIN EN ISO 5832-3, but heat treatment also reduced the high residual stresses caused by the manufacturing process.
In the high cycle fatigue range, no significant difference was found between the two material states.
The fatigue strength was increased compared to the literature.
In electrochemical corrosion investigations, no remarkable differences between the two material states were detected by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy or potentiodynamic polarization measurements, but the high corrosion resistance of PBF-LB/M Ti6Al4V was demonstrated.
The study provides a wide electrochemical and mechanical database for the design of the PBF-LB/M manufactured alloy Titanium grade 21 as an implant material.
Ultrasonic fatigue testing is quite a useful tool for exploring the high-cycle and very-high-cycle fatigue properties of materials.
Damping monitoring has been proved to be fairly effective in indicating the generated defects or damage in the testing specimen.
In this work, two damping monitoring methods are comparatively studied, i.e., our recently proposed quantitative electromechanical impedance method and the traditional vibration-free decay method.
Industrial pure copper and 6061 aluminum alloy are used for fatigue testing and damping monitoring.
To exclude the differences of temperature effect on the testing system, the same duty ratio of 15.4% is employed in the ultrasonic fatigue testing.
The results show that both methods can effectively monitor the system damping during testing and the damping evolution process just before failure.
Specifically, the free decay method can obtain more damping data and has advantages in monitoring metals, such as aluminum alloys, whose fracture process is very quick.
However, the system damping obtained by free decay is strongly dependent on the testing stresses and signal processing and is thus not suitable for failure prediction of specimens.
In comparison, the system damping obtained by using the quantitative electromechanical impedance method is independent of the testing stresses.
Thus, a definite relationship between the system damping and specimen's internal friction can be established.
However, tens of seconds are required for accurate damping measurement using the quantitative electromechanical impedance method, leading to a low duty ratio of the ultrasonic fatigue testing.
In practical, both the methods are suggested for monitoring of early damage during ultrasonic fatigue testing.
A curved large-area neutron beam window (NBW) has been designed for the large vacuum chamber of the high-resolution neutron diffractometer at the China Spallation Neutron Source.
Compared with the conventional planar NBW, the curved structure can effectively reduce the deformation and stress, featuring a significantly longer lifetime and smaller thickness, which is crucial for improving the signal-noise ratio of diffraction data.
Two prototypes of curved NBW with different thicknesses, 0.8 and 1.3 mm, were processed by high-speed milling, and the mechanical properties were studied by both strain gauges and x-ray stress analyzer.
The experimental distribution of stress is in good consistency with the finite element analysis.
Moreover, fatigue tests over 104 cycles of evacuation and venting demonstrate that the deformations of both prototypes are within the elastic region, which indicates a long life span.
Therefore, this study reveals that the curved shape bears advantageous mechanical properties over the planar type for large and thin NBW.
Compacted graphite iron is the material of choice for engine cylinder heads of heavy-duty trucks.
Compacted graphite iron provides the best possible compromise between optimum mechanical properties, compared to flake graphite iron, and optimum thermal conductivity, compared to spheroidal graphite iron.
The vermicular-shaped graphite particles, however, act as stress concentrators, and, as a result of delamination from the metal matrix, they are responsible for crack initiation during the thermomechanical fatigue cycles occurring through engine startup and shutdown cycles.
Scratch tests driven over the matrix and into the graphite particles were performed in order to characterize the strength of the metal⁻graphite interface.
Samples extracted from a cylinder head in as-cast condition were compared to samples subjected to a heat-treatment at 700 &deg;C for 60 h.
The former samples were composed of a primarily pearlitic matrix and graphite particles (~11.5 vol %), whereas, after annealing, a certain pearlite fraction decomposed into Fe and C, producing a microstructure with graphite⁻ferrite interfaces, exhibiting a partially spiky morphology.
The scratch test revealed that the ferrite⁻graphite interfaces with spiky nature exhibited a stronger resistance to delamination compared to the ferrite⁻graphite interfaces with smooth morphology.
One reason for the high interface strength is the mechanical interlocking between graphite spikes and ferrite, increasing the contact area between the two phases.
The fatigue behavior of ZnO nanowires (NWs) and microwires was systematically investigated with in situ transmission electron microscopy electromechanical resonance method.
The elastic modulus and mechanical quality factors of ZnO wires were obtained.
No damage or failure was found in the intact ZnO wires after resonance for about 10(8)-10(9) cycles, while the damaged ZnO NW under electron beam (e-beam) irradiation fractured after resonance for seconds.
The research results will provide a useful guide for designing, fabricating, and optimizing electromechanical nanodevices based on ZnO nanomaterials, as well as future applications.
This study establishes a novel machine learning paradigm integrating physical mechanisms.
It aims to address the limitations of traditional methods in predicting the concrete fatigue life of high-speed railway (HSR) track slab, particularly their insufficient accuracy and poor interpretability due to overlooking microstructure characteristics and load randomness.
The research method innovatively develops a multi-task learning framework combining the Graph Neural Network (GNN) and Transformer architectures.
GNN abstracts concrete microstructure as topological graphs to capture spatial damage propagation paths, while Transformer analyzes random load spectra to identify critical temporal patterns determining fatigue damage.
The multi-task framework simultaneously predicts fatigue life, damage evolution rate, and residual strength.
Experimental results demonstrate the outstanding performance of the proposed GNN-Transformer model.
After 150 training epochs, the proposed model achieves a Mean Squared Error of 0.224, Root Mean Square Error of 0.332, and Coefficient of Determination reaching 0.939.
Meanwhile, based on the computational architecture used in the experiments, the model achieves an average single-sample prediction latency of 0.86 s and a GPU utilization rate of 48.3%, demonstrating its strong potential for online deployment.
All indicators significantly outperform existing models.
The study concludes that this framework successfully constructs a high-accuracy, efficient, and physically interpretable prediction model by effectively integrating microstructure topology with macroscopic load sequence features.
This study provides robust algorithmic support for predictive maintenance and intelligent health management of HSR infrastructure.
The torsional fatigue test determines the fatigue limit for a certain asymmetry coefficient of the cycle.
The assessment of fatigue tests is performed on specialized machines.
There are two types of torsion testing machines: universal machines that have the torsion component and specialized machines only for torsion testing.
Nevertheless, no matter which proposed option we choose, the purchase prices for these testing machines or the values spent for self-management are quite high.
This paper presented a device used for torsion fatigue testing, adaptable to a universal pulsating testing machine, designed to determine the torsion fatigue limit for different materials.
The built device is simple and reliable, and therefore inexpensive.
By using this device, we can determine the limit of the torsional fatigue after any stress cycle and we can use the parameters obtained from the universal machine to which it was attached.
The torque and twisting angle of the test specimen during the test can be determined by calculation.
The paper also presented an experimental method for determining shear strains based on calibration experiment, using a specimen on which strain gauges were mounted.
The values taken from this calibration experiment were compared with those obtained from the theoretical calculation.
The second-generation aluminum-magnesium-scandium (Al-Mg-Sc) alloy, which is often referred to as Scalmalloy
This study characterized the mechanical properties (static and under fatigue), the crystalline microstructure (monoclinic - m, tetragonal - t and cubic - c phase contents) and the surface topography of three yttrium-stabilized zirconia (YSZ) materials with different translucent properties, before and after aging in an autoclave (low temperature degradation).
Disc-shaped specimens were produced from second generation (Katana ML/HT - high-translucent) and third generations (Katana STML - super-translucent and UTML - ultra-translucent) YSZ ceramics (Kuraray Noritake Dental Inc.), following ISO 6872-2015 guidelines for biaxial flexural strength testing (final dimensions: 15 mm in diameter and 1.2 ± 0.2 mm in thickness), and then subjected to the respective tests and analyses.
ML was mainly composed of tetragonal crystals, while STML and UTML presented cubic content.
Aging increased the monoclinic content for ML and did not affect STML and UTML.
Topographical analysis highlights different grain sizes on the ceramic surface (UTML > STML > ML) and aging had no effect on this outcome.
Weibull analysis showed the highest characteristic strength for ML both before and after aging, and statistically similar Weibull moduli for all groups.
ML material also obtained the highest survival rates (ML > STML > UTML) for both fatigue strength and number of cycles to failure.
All fractures originated from surface defects on the tensile side.
Third generation zirconia (Katana STML and UTML) are fully stabilized materials (with tetragonal and cubic crystals), being totally inert to the autoclave aging, and presented lower mechanical properties than the second-generation zirconia (Katana ML - metastable zirconia).
This paper reviews the research results to date on gigacycle fatigue caused by internal fractures in high strength steels.
Firstly, accelerated fatigue testing was realized using ultrasonic fatigue testing at 20 kHz, which completes 10
Nitinol, a nearly equiatomic alloy of nickel and titanium, has been considered for a wide range of applications including medical and dental devices and implants as well as aerospace and automotive components and structures.
The realistic loading condition in many of these applications is cyclic; therefore, fatigue is often the main failure mode for such components and structures.
The fatigue behavior of Nitinol involves many more complexities compared with traditional metal alloys arising from its uniqueness in material properties such as superelasticity and shape memory effects.
In this paper, a review of the present state-of-the-art on the fatigue behavior of superelastic Nitinol is presented.
Various aspects of fatigue of Nitinol are discussed and microstructural effects are explained.
Effects of material preparation and testing conditions are also reviewed.
Finally, several conclusions are made and recommendations for future works are offered.
Solid-state composites of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) are increasingly being investigated for various therapeutic and sensing use cases in arthroplasty.
Due to its extremely high melt viscosity, composites of UHMWPE exhibit a much more distinct phase segregation than lower-viscosity polymer composites.
This phase segregation may influence UHMWPE behavior in a different way than microstructural factors studied previously (e.g. crosslinking).
The purpose of this study was to quantify UHMWPE nanocomposites' resistance to failure via several distinct measures, across a range of carbon black (CB) filler loadings.
Results showed that tensile and impact toughness followed similar trends: both maintained or increased in magnitude over neat controls at low filler concentration, then decreased at higher filler contents.
On the other hand, fatigue crack propagation resistance (CPR) demonstrated similar behavior to tensile and impact toughness at lower concentrations but diverged at higher concentrations.
From 2.5 wt% CB to the highest concentration tested (10 wt% CB), fatigue properties improved-unlike tensile or impact toughness.
The observed transitions in macroscopic behavior with increasing filler content coincided with microstructural phenomena observed via scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and fracture surface imaging.
These phenomena included a transition from transgranular fracture to intergranular fracture, the onset of complete granule coating, and the formation of intergranular voids.
This work demonstrates that tensile and impact toughness are not necessarily indicative of fatigue CPR in these materials.
Broadly, the findings presented in this study motivate further investigation of structure-property relationships for phase-segregated polymer composites and demonstrate promise for their use in high-load scenarios.
Through investigating and comparing the fatigue behavior of an as-forged Mg-6.7Zn-1.3Y-0.6Zr (wt.%) alloy before and after solid solution treatment (T4) in laboratory air, the effect of T4 treatment on fatigue crack initiation was disclosed.
S-N curves illustrated that the fatigue strength of as-forged samples was 110 MPa, whereas the fatigue strength of T4 samples was only 80 MPa. Observations to fracture surfaces demonstrated that for as-forged samples, fatigue crack initiation sites were covered with a layer of oxide film.
However, due to the coarse grain structure and the dissolution of MgZn2 precipitates, the activation and accumulation of {10-12} twins in T4 samples were much easier, resulting in the preferential fatigue crack initiation at cracked twin boundaries (TBs).
Surface characterization demonstrated that TB cracking was mainly ascribed to the incompatible plastic deformation in the twinned area and nearby α-Mg matrix.
The prediction of fatigue life is critical in the design process, and current models offer a viable alternative to costly and time-consuming experimental fatigue testing.
The constitutive fatigue model used integrates low-cycle and high-cycle fatigue behavior.
This model is grounded on the concept of fatigue damage evolution and incorporates a moving endurance surface within the stress space, eliminating the need for ambiguous cycle-counting methods.
An interesting observation is that many polymers exhibit macroscopic fatigue characteristics, specifically, the form of the S-N curve similar to those observed in metals.
Consequently, all fatigue model parameters were expressed in terms of the well-established Coffin-Manson-Basquin model parameters.
However, the constitutive mathematical modeling itself is computationally time-consuming, particularly when applied to predict high-cycle fatigue across large design spaces.
Therefore, the proposed model was utilized exclusively to generate high-quality data for training machine learning models that offer significantly improved computational efficiency.
The high-cycle fatigue design of polymers and other ductile materials, traditionally dependent on expensive and time-consuming experimental methods, is now expedited through an advanced modeling framework that combines constitutive mathematical modeling with AI-based approaches.
Three sets of hydroxyapatite and rutile-TiO
With the rapid development of wearable intelligent devices, low-cost wearable strain sensors with high sensitivity and low detection limit are urgently demanded.
Meanwhile, sensing stability of sensor in wet or corrosive environments should also be considered in practical applications.
Here, superhydrophobic microcracked conductive paper-based strain sensor was fabricated by coating conductive Ti
Soft ionic elastomers that are self-healable, fatigue-free, and environment-tolerant are ideal structural and sensing materials for artificial prosthetics, soft electronics, and robotics to survive unpredictable service conditions.
However, most synthetic strategies failed to unite rapid healing, fatigue resistance, and environmental robustness, limited by their singular compositional/structural designs.
Here, we present a soft, tough, fatigue-resistant, and self-healable ionic elastomer (STFSI elastomer), which fuses skin-like binary assembly and Bouligand helicoidal structure into a composite of thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) fibers and a supramolecular ionic biopolymer.
The interlocked binary assembly enables skin-like softness, high stretchability, and strain-adaptive stiffening through a matrix-to-scaffold stress transfer.
The Bouligand structure contributes to superhigh fracture toughness (101.6 kJ m
Flexible lithium-air batteries (FLABs) with ultrahigh theoretical energy density are considered as the most promising energy storage devices for next-generation flexible and wearable electronics.
However, their practical application is seriously hindered by various obstacles, including bulky and rigid electrodes, instability/low conductivity of electrolytes, and especially, the inherent semi-open structure.
When operated in ambient air, moisture penetrated from an air cathode inevitably corrodes a Li metal anode, and most of the reported FLABs can only work under a pure oxygen or specific air (relative humidity: <40%) atmosphere, which cannot be regarded as a real "lithium-air battery".
Herein, the author designed an innovative battery configuration by the synergy of a 3D open-structured Co
Since the inelastic strain development plays an important role in the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) of High-Performance Polymers (HPPs), the goal of the research was to study the effect of an amorphous polymer matrix type on the resistance to cyclic loading for both polyimide (PI)- and polyetherimide (PEI)-based composites, identically loaded with short carbon fibers (SCFs) of various lengths, in the LCF mode.
The fracture of the PI and PEI, as well as their particulate composites loaded with SCFs at an aspect ratio (AR) of 10, occurred with a significant role played by cyclic creep processes.
Unlike PEI, PI was less prone to the development of creep processes, probably because of the greater rigidity of the polymer molecules.
This increased the stage duration of the accumulation of scattered damage in the PI-based composites loaded with SCFs at AR = 20 and AR = 200, causing their greater cyclic durability.
In the case of SCFs 2000 µm long, the length of the SCFs was comparable to the specimen thickness, causing the formation of a spatial framework of unattached SCFs at AR = 200.
The higher rigidity of the PI polymer matrix provided more effective resistance to the accumulation of scattered damage with the simultaneously higher fatigue creep resistance.
Under such conditions, the adhesion factor exerted a lesser effect.
As shown, the fatigue life of the composites was determined both by the chemical structure of the polymer matrix and the offset yield stresses.
The essential role of the cyclic damage accumulation in both neat PI and PEI, as well as their composites reinforced with SCFs, was confirmed by the results of XRD spectra analysis.
The research holds the potential to solve problems related to the fatigue life monitoring of particulate polymer composites.
Hot isostatic pressing processed yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia polycrystal (HIP Y-TZP) has the potential for application to implants due to its high mechanical performance.
The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of surface treatment of HIP Y-TZP on cyclic fatigue strength.
HIP Y-TZP specimens were subjected to different surface treatments.
Biaxial flexural strength was determined by both static and cyclic fatigue testing.
In the cyclic fatigue test, the load was applied at a frequency of 10 Hz for 10(6) cycles in distilled water at 37°C.
The surface morphology, roughness, and crystal phase of the surfaces were also evaluated.
The cyclic fatigue strength (888 MPa) of HIP Y-TZP with sandblasting and acid-etching was more than twice that of Y-TZP as specified in ISO 13356 for surgical implants (320 MPa), indicating the clinical potential of this material.
The low cycle fatigue tests using the replica technique for LZ50 steel under non-proportional cyclic loading were carried out, and eight groups of effective test data were obtained.
The evolution behaviour of short cracks was studied based on the effective short cracks criterion.
The results show that short cracks generally originate in the grain or along the grain boundary.
At the microstructural short crack stage, the crack propagation is influenced strongly by the microstructure of the material, and the growth rate of the short crack slows down several times according to the number of obstacles encountered.
At the physical short crack stage, the crack propagation breaks through the banded structure of pearlite.
Thus, the dominant effective short fatigue crack is formed, and the crack growth rate increases rapidly.
Based on the modified parameters of the uniaxial short crack model, an approach is presented to calculate the growth rate of short cracks under multi-axial non-proportional loadings, and the new model can consider the non-proportional factor F.
The fitting results of the multi-axial microstructural obstacles model are compared with test data.
The comparison results show that this model can reflect the trend of short fatigue crack propagation rate under non-proportional loadings.
Bismuth is added to Sn-Ag-Cu-based solders to increase strength and solder joint reliability but accelerated thermal cycling (ATC) tests have shown variable thermal fatigue performance.
To better understand their thermal fatigue mechanisms, we investigate three Sn-Ag-Cu-Bi solder alloys containing between 3 and 6 wt.% bismuth in two types of ball grid array (BGA) packages tested using a harsh ATC profile of -55/125 °C.
We study how the bismuth additions affect the microstructure after soldering, after ~ 4 years storage at room temperature and after thermal cycling.
The Weibull reliability statistics are then correlated with the microstructural evolution including solutionising, homogenisation, bismuth precipitation, recrystallisation and crack paths.
The results show that high strength Sn-Ag-Cu-Bi solders can improve the resistance to thermal fatigue, but high solder strength needs to be balanced against excessive stress transfer to the intermetallic attachment layer.
The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10854-025-15979-2.
This study was designed to determine whether the mechanical cyclic stressing that occurs during normal mastication contributes to margin breakdown of dental amalgam restorations.
The method used appears to duplicate the mechanical stresses developed in vivo during mastication, as the result of tooth flexing.
We evaluated one low-copper alloy--NTD--and three high-copper alloys--Dispersalloy, Phasealloy, and Tytin.
We prepared simple amalgam restorations in a cavity centrally located in an aluminum beam.
Each specimen received five periods of three-point cyclical loading (1.7 hertz, 4200 cycles at 37 degrees C).
The margin area was subjected to SEM examination prior to and at the completion of each period of cycling.
At the beginning of each period of cycling, beam deflection was set to establish a maximum theoretical stress of 1, 2, 4, 6, or 8 MPa. For all brands, cycling resulted in margin gap formation and surface wrinkling.
Wrinkling in Dispersalloy occurred as a wide band of shallow wrinkles, whereas that in NTD occurred as a narrow band of deep wrinkles.
At 21,000 cycles, very little void formation and fracturing had occurred in the Dispersalloy or NTD restorations.
In contrast, the Phasealloy and Tytin restorations developed extensive fracturing even after 4200 cycles.
Fracture surface analyses of Phasealloy and Tytin indicated that creep fatigue rupture was the fracture mechanism responsible for margin breakdown in these amalgam restorations, when subjected to cyclic compressive loading similar to that experienced during mastication.
Hydrogels, as flexible materials, have been widely used in the field of flexible sensors.
Human sweat contains a variety of biomarkers that can reflect the physiological state of the human body.
Therefore, it is of great practical significance and application value to realize the detection of sweat composition and combine it with human motion sensing through a hydrogel.
Based on mussel-inspired chemistry, polydopamine (PDA) and gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) were coated on the surface of cellulose nanocrystals (CNCs) to obtain CNC-based nanocomposites (CNCs@PDA-Au), which could simultaneously enhance the mechanical, electrochemical, and self-healing properties of hydrogels.
The CNCs@PDA-Au was composited with poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) hydrogel to obtain the nanocomposite hydrogel (PVA/CNCs@PDA-Au) by freeze-thaw cycles.
The PVA/CNCs@PDA-Au has excellent mechanical strength (7.2 MPa) and self-healing properties (88.3%).
The motion sensors designed with PVA/CNCs@PDA-Au exhibited a fast response time (122.9 ms), wide strain sensing range (0-600.0%), excellent stability, and fatigue resistance.
With the unique electrochemical redox properties of uric acid, the designed hydrogel sensor successfully realized the detection of uric acid in sweat with a wide detection range (1.0-100.0 μmol/L) and low detection limit (0.42 μmol/L).
In this study, the dual detection of human motion and uric acid in sweat was successfully realized by the designed PVA/CNCs@PDA-Au nanocomposite hydrogel.
The bending fatigue resistance of commercially-available Standard versus High Purity Nitinol was evaluated at 3% mean strain and a range of strain amplitudes with the simple wire Z-specimen geometry.
The Standard grade Nitinol demonstrated a 10(7)-cycle fatigue strain limit of 0.50% alternating strain, comparable to results reported elsewhere in the literature.
Conversely, the High Purity grade VAR Nitinol demonstrated a 5-fold improvement in fatigue resistance with an impressive 10(7)-cycle fatigue strain limit of 2.5% alternating strain.
The High Purity Nitinol has an oxygen+nitrogen content of 60wppm, maximum wrought-material inclusion length of 17µm, and inclusion volume fraction of 0.28%, all substantially less than industry standards.
With all processing variables held constant except for inclusion content, it is clear that this marked fatigue superiority is due exclusively to the reduction in both size and area fraction of inclusions.
Research was carried out to explore the effect of pulsed electron beam irradiation on the behavior of structure and phase state in AISI 310S steel exposed to high-cycle fatigue.
A 2.2 times increase in the fatigue life of samples irradiated by electron beams was revealed.
The outcomes of scanning and transmission electron microscopic studies suggest the most probable reason for the fracture of steel samples irradiated by a high-intensity electron beam to be microcraters originating on a treated surface and acting as stress risers initiating the propagation of microcracks.
The irradiation with a pulsed electron beam causes extremely fast melting of the surface.
As a result of the subsequent rapid crystallization, a polycrystalline structure nearly twice as small as an average grain in the untreated steel is formed.
Since a surface layer crystallizes rapidly, crystallization cells ranging from 120 to 170 nm develop in the volume of grains.
The fatigue testing is shown to be associated with a martensite transformation γ &rArr; ε in the surface layer.
One option to intensify a fatigue life increase of the steel in focus is supposed to be the neutralization of crater-forming on a surface treated by electron beams.
To increase transmission efficiency and reduce operation cost, dual-phase (DP) steels have been considered for pipeline applications.
Welding has to be involved in such applications, which would cause a localized alteration of materials and cause many potential fatigue issues to arise under cyclic loading.
In this work, the fatigue crack propagation and fatigue life of simulated heat-affected zone (HAZ) were examined.
Results indicate that when the maximum stress is at the same magnitude, the fatigue life at a peak temperature of 1050 °C is very close to that of a peak temperature of 850 °C, and both of them are higher than that of a peak temperature of 1350 °C.
The paper presents the results of the fatigue testing of heat-treated and thermochemically treated C75 steel with different process parameters in terms of working medium (gas, salt bath), temperature, and time.
The experimental program aims to analyze the changes in microstructure under the influence of heat treatment and fatigue resistance.
The relationships between the structural changes, the internal stress, and the heat-treated material's mechanical and physical properties can determine the first nano cracks leading to rupture propagation.
Based on the experimental values of this paper, we highlight the dependence between the nature of the cracks and the stress to which the specimen was subjected.
The paper presents a brief introduction to the fatigue test and the experimental tests performed to determine the fatigue resistance characteristics, the macroscopic analysis of the material, and the crystallographic analysis.
The results obtained allow a comparison between the fatigue limits of heat-treated and thermochemically treated C75 steel in gas and salt baths.
Microknurling, a high pressure surface indentation technique, was devised as an alternative to traditional heat-bonded porous coatings found on many orthopedic implants designed for fixation by tissue ingrowth.
Heat-bonded porous coating can cause at the surface of an implant stress concentrations that reduce fatigue strength.
However, microknurling may reduce stress intensification without eliminating it.
Thus the purpose of this work was to explore surface thermal/mechanical processing of Ti-6Al-4V to improve the fatigue strength of microknurled specimens via the production of a Ti-6Al-4V dual microstructure.
The latter consists of a surface layer of equiaxed grains known to be effective against crack initiation and a bulk microstructure of lamellar grains that possesses optimum fatigue crack propagation resistance.
Rotating-bending fatigue tests showed that such a microstructure had some benefits, but this was offset by the reduction in compressive strains imparted to the surface by the heat treatments needed to obtain this microstructure.
Under mechanical loading, nanocrystalline metals show unique behaviour, among the most common of which are high strength, mechanically induced grain growth and twin formation.
However, mechanically induced grain growth is seldom correlated with twins.
Here we report a clear relationship between grain growth and nanoscale twins in 20-nm-thick gold films with a grain size of ~19 nm under cyclic loading based on atomic-scale observations and analyses.
We find that the formation of nanotwins is an effective way to assist grain coarsening, following a fundamental process that the mutual formation of nanotwins in two neighbouring grains changes the local grain orientation and dissociates the grain boundary into new segments, which become more mobile.
The proposed mechanism of nanotwin-assisted grain growth may have important implications for understanding the interface-mediated mechanisms of cyclic plastic deformation and for the interface engineering design of nanostructured metals with both high strength and good fatigue resistance.
This study evaluated the tradeoffs amongst fatigue crack propagation resistance, wear resistance, and oxidative stability in a wide variety of clinically-relevant cross-linked ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene.
Highly cross-linked re-melted materials showed good oxidation and wear performance, but diminished fatigue crack propagation resistance.
Highly cross-linked annealed materials showed good wear and fatigue performance, but poor oxidation resistance.
Moderately cross-linked re-melted materials showed good oxidation resistance, but moderate wear and fatigue resistance.
Increasing radiation dose increased wear resistance but decreased fatigue crack propagation resistance.
Annealing reduced fatigue resistance less than re-melting, but left materials susceptible to oxidation.
This appears to occur because annealing below the melting temperature after cross-linking increased the volume fraction and size of lamellae, but failed to neutralize all free radicals.
Alternately, re-melting after cross-linking appeared to eliminate free radicals, but, restricted by the network of cross-links, the re-formed lamellae were fewer and smaller in size which resulted in poor fatigue crack propagation resistance.
This is the first study to simultaneously evaluate fatigue crack propagation, wear, oxidation, and microstructure in a wide variety of clinically-relevant ultra-high.
The tradeoff we have shown in fatigue, wear, and oxidation performance is critical to the material's long-term success in total joint replacements.
Multiaxial low-cycle fatigue (MLCF) behavior of laser powder bed fused (L-PBF) Ti-6Al-4V was systematically investigated with four building direction (BD) in this paper.
Proportional and non-proportional strain-controlled MLCF tests characterized cyclic softening and fracture mechanisms.
L-PBF Ti-6Al-4V exhibits three-stage cyclic softening with occasional initial hardening, while non-proportional softening predominates, contrasting with conventional titanium alloys.
Macro-micro characterization reveals that defect density and cleavage morphology strongly influence fatigue performance across BD.
Fatigue life was predicted using analytical models (FS and KBMP) and a hybrid physics- and data-driven VAE-ANN model.
While the KBMP model improves predictions over FS, both fail to fully account for BD effects.
Incorporating macro-micro features, the VAE-ANN model achieves highly accurate MLCF life predictions within 10% error.
These results highlight the critical roles of BD and microstructural characteristics in governing the MLCF behavior of L-PBF Ti-6Al-4V.
In this study, the strength, elongation, and fatigue properties of 7005 aluminum alloy plates with different configurations of precipitates were investigated by means of tensile tests, fatigue tests, and microstructural observation.
We found that the number and size of GP zones in an alloy plate matrix increased and the distribution was more uniform after the aging time was extended from 1 h to 4 h at 120 °C, which led to a rise in both strength and elongation of alloy plates with the extending aging time.
The fatigue life of the alloy plates shortened slightly at first, then significantly prolonged, and then shortened again with the aging time extending from 1 h to 192 h and a fatigue stress level of 185 MPa and stress ratio (R) = 0.
After aging at 120 °C for 96 h, the precipitates in the alloy plate matrix were almost all metastable η'-phase particles, which had the optimal aging strengthening effect on the alloy matrix, and the degree of mismatch between the α-Al matrix and second-phase particles was the smallest; the fatigue crack initiation and propagation resistances were the largest, leading to the best fatigue performance of alloy plates, and the fatigue life of the aluminum plate was the longest, up to 1.272 × 10
The effect of high-pressure torsion (HPT) processing on the microstructure and mechanical biocompatibility includes Young's modulus, tensile strength, ductility, fatigue life, fretting fatigue, wear properties and other functionalities such as super elasticity and shape memory effect, etc. at levels suitable for structural biomaterials used in implants that replace hard tissue in the broad sense (Sumitomo et al., 2008 [4]).
In particular, in this study, the mechanical biocompatibility implies a combination of great hardness and high strength with an adequate ductility while keeping low Young's modulus of a novel Ti-29Nb-13Ta-4.6Zr (TNTZ) for biomedical applications at rotation numbers (N) ranging from 1 to 60 under a pressure of 1.25 GPa at room temperature was systematically investigated in order to increase its mechanical strength with maintaining low Young's modulus and an adequate ductility.
TNTZ subjected to HPT processing (TNTZHPT) at low N exhibits a heterogeneous microstructure in micro-scale and nano-scale consisting of a matrix and a non-etched band, which has nanosized equiaxed and elongated single β grains, along its cross section.
The grains exhibit high dislocation densities, consequently non-equilibrium grain boundaries, and non-uniform subgrains distorted by severe deformation.
At high N which is N>20, TNTZHPT has a more homogeneous microstructure in nano-scale with increasing equivalent strain, εeq. Therefore, TNTZHPT at high N exhibits a more homogenous hardness distribution.
The tensile strength and 0.2% proof stress of TNTZHPT increase significantly with N over the range of 0≤N≤5, and then become saturated at around 1100 MPa and 800 MPa at N≥10.
However, the ductility of TNTZHPT shows a reverse trend and a low-level elongation, at around 7%.
And, Young's modulus of TNTZHPT decreases slightly to 60 GPa with increasing N and then becomes saturated at N≥10.
These obtained results confirm that the mechanical strength of TNTZ can be improved while maintaining a low Young's modulus in single β grain structures through severe plastic deformation.
Surface nanoengineering can significantly improve the mechanical properties and performance of metals, such as strength, hardness, fatigue, wear resistance,
Interfacial reliability is critical for the long-term stability of perovskite solar cells (PSCs), yet the perovskite-substrate interface represents the most vulnerable part in high-efficiency devices.
Here, this interface, by incorporating a dual-sided anchoring polymeric hole-transporting interlayer is reinforced with abundant coordinating pyridyl units as side chains, which induces strong adhesion between the perovskite and substrate by forming multidimensional interactions with adjacent layers.
This simultaneously enhances the mechanical strength through effective distribution and dissipation of mechanical stress and the electronic quality of the perovskite-substrate interface through defect passivation.
The resulting PSCs exhibit a high power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 26.8% (certified at 26.6%).
With a more robust perovskite composition, devices maintain 98% of their initial PCE of ≈26% after maximum-power-point tracking at 85 °C for 1500 h.
These devices exhibit excellent fatigue resistance under thermal cycling (-40 to 85 °C), retaining 93% efficiency after undergoing 900 cycles.
The implant-abutment connection of a two-piece dental implant exhibits complex micromechanical behavior.
A microgap is evident at the implant-abutment interface, even in the virgin state, and its width varies when an external mechanical load is applied.
This study used high-resolution synchrotron-based radiography in combination with hard x-ray phase-contrast mode to visualize this gap and estimate its size.
Commercially available implants with different internal conical implant-abutment connections were imaged.
Pairs of implants were imaged as manufactured (new) and after fatigue loading (5 million cycles up to 120 N).
Then, different static loads were applied at different angles relative to the implant-abutment assemblies, and the implant-abutment microgaps were measured and compared.
Microgaps existed in all systems.
Fatigue loading extended the size of the microgap and increased the possibility of micromovement of the implant-abutment complex.
The cone angle of the connection also influenced the stability of the abutment, with flatter cones appearing to be more stable.
Cyclic loading at medium force (120 N) induces plastic deformation of titanium implants and abutments.
The fatigue crack growth behavior and fracture toughness of EH36 thermo-mechanical control process (TMCP) steel were investigated by fatigue crack growth rate testing and fracture toughness testing at room temperature.
Scanning electron microscopy was used to observe the fracture characteristics of fatigue crack propagation and fracture toughness.
The results indicated that the microstructure of EH36 steel is composed of ferrite and pearlite with a small amount of texture.
The Paris formula was obtained based on the experimental data, and the value of fracture toughness for EH36 steel was also calculated using the J-integral method.
The observations conducted on fatigue fracture surfaces showed that there were a lot of striations, secondary cracks and tearing ridges in the fatigue crack propagation region.
Additionally, there existed many dimples on the fracture surfaces of the fracture toughness specimens, which indicated that the crack was propagated through the mechanism of micro-void growth/coalescence.
Based on the micromechanical model, the relationship between the micro-fracture surface morphology and the fracture toughness of EH36 steel was established.
To investigate the reliability of titanium abutments veneered with indirect composites for implant-supported crowns and the possibility to trace back the fracture origin by qualitative fractographic analysis.
Large base (LB) (6.4-mm diameter base, with a 4-mm high cone in the center for composite retention), small base (SB-4) (5.2-mm base, 4-mm high cone), and small base with cone shortened to 2 mm (SB-2) Ti abutments were used.
Each abutment received incremental layers of indirect resin composite until completing the anatomy of a maxillary molar crown.
Step-stress accelerated-life fatigue testing (n = 18 each) was performed in water.
Weibull curves with use stress of 200 N for 50,000 and 100,000 cycles were calculated.
Probability Weibull plots examined the differences between groups.
Specimens were inspected in light-polarized and scanning electron microscopes for fractographic analysis.
Use level probability Weibull plots showed Beta values of 0.27 for LB, 0.32 for SB-4, and 0.26 for SB-2, indicating that failures were not influenced by fatigue and damage accumulation.
The data replotted as Weibull distribution showed no significant difference in the characteristic strengths between LB (794 N) and SB-4 abutments (836 N), which were both significantly higher than SB-2 (601 N).
Failure mode was cohesive within the composite for all groups.
Fractographic markings showed that failures initiated at the indentation area and propagated toward the margins of cohesively failed composite.
Reliability was not influenced by abutment design.
Qualitative fractographic analysis of the failed indirect composite was feasible.
Gallium alloys that have been developed as a substitute for dental amalgam were investigated for fatigue properties and the effects of environmental factors were also examined.
Cylindrical specimens were fatigue-tested employing cyclic tensile loading.
Statistical definition of the fatigue limit at 10(5) cycles was obtained according to the staircase method.
The significance of environmental factors were evaluated by analysis of variance using the orthogonal table L8 (2(7)).
The fatigue limit of gallium alloys was higher than that of a conventional high copper amalgam and was influenced by the experimental environment such as temperature and water.
The fatigue fracture occurred in the matrix and the interface between the matrix and the core.
Gallium alloys have excellent fatigue properties as a filling material.
Understanding the failure mechanisms of Pb-free solder joints during thermal cycling is a critical issue in electronic packaging, where solder joints strongly influence device reliability and lifetime.
While electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) has been widely used for this purpose, its destructive nature prevents tracking the microstructural evolution of solder joints from their pristine state.
Non-destructive X-ray-based orientation microscopy techniques can address this limitation but typically require cylindrical, pillar-shaped specimens, which are incompatible with the planar geometry of practical solder joints.
To overcome this constraint, we apply inclined scanning three-dimensional X-ray diffraction microscopy (i-S3DXRD), which is specifically designed for plate-like specimens.
Using i-S3DXRD, we found that thermal cycling induces preferential reorientation of β-Sn grains toward specific crystallographic directions relative to the Cu substrate.
This reorientation is associated with recrystallization-assisted grain boundary migration and grain coalescence, and is closely related to the thermal fatigue behavior of Pb-free solder joints.
In the serviced components of a 7075 aluminum alloy, the propagation of fatigue crack can be retarded because of the overload effect; however, the corresponding retardation mechanisms are complex.
To provide further insights into the retardation mechanisms of 7075 aluminum alloys, this study addresses the crack tip damage response of a cracked 7075 aluminum alloy under an overload effect.
Based on the dual-scale modeling approach and the damage-coupled crystal plasticity model, the effect of the microstructure of a 7075 aluminum alloy on the damage behavior ahead of the crack tip under an overload was studied.
The factors affecting fatigue damage accumulation ahead of the crack tip, such as dislocation density, the variation in the activities of slip systems, and the orientation effect of the nearest neighbor grains, are described.
The results show that for the 7075 aluminum alloy, the compressive residual stress induced by the overload effect not only decreases the number of activated slip systems, but also lowers the rate of increase in dislocation density.
This causes a decrease in fatigue damage accumulation during deformation.
Moreover, the overload effect decreases the slip system activity as well as the resultant plastic slip; however, the decrease in plastic slip varies with the grain orientation, indicating that the overload effect depends on the grain orientation.
It can also be found that both the damage strain energy release rate and lattice strain are influenced by the orientation of the nearest neighbor grains, which can eventually affect the overload effect.
These findings contribute to understanding the retardation mechanisms from a microscopic perspective and provide guidance on improving the material design of a 7075 aluminum alloy to some extent.
Mechanical fatigue of bone leads to micro-cracking which is associated with remodeling, establishing a balance in the microcrack population of the living tissue, thus, in the steady-state, the microstructure of bone provides sites of discontinuity acting as stress raisers.
Hence fracture toughness plays a decisive role in bone functionality by determining the level to which the material can be stressed in the presence of cracks, or, equivalently, the magnitude of cracking which can be tolerated at a given stress level.
Cortical bone, which behaves as a quasi-brittle solid when fractured, was tested as short-rod chevron-notched tension specimens (CNT).
The main features of the CNT specimen are its geometry and the V shaped notch.
The notch leads to steady-state crack propagation whilst the requested geometry allows a diameter 40% smaller than the thickness of a standard compact tension specimens (CT).
These features are essential to distinguish the inhomogeneties in the fracture properties of materials like bone.
Bone structure and crack propagation of the CNT specimens were analyzed using X-ray computed micro-tomography (XMT), which is a non-invasive imaging technique.
The unique feature of the micro-CT is the high resolution three-dimensional image which consists of multi-sliced tomographs taken in a fine pitch along the rotational axis.
Fracture toughness (K(IC)) computed according to the peak load was 4.8 MNm(-3/2) while that derived from experimental calibration tests using XMT was 4.9 MNm(-3/2).
Three different microstructures--equiaxed, bi-modal and coarse lamellar--are prepared from Ti-6Al-4V alloy.
Electric discharge machining (EDM) with a high peak current (29 A) is performed in order to impose surface roughness and modify the chemical composition of the surface.
Detailed scanning electron microscopy (SEM) investigation revealed a martensitic surface layer and subsurface heat affected zone (HAZ).
EDX measurements showed carbon enriched remnants of the EDM process on the material surface.
Rotating bending fatigue tests are undertaken for EDM processed samples for all three microstructures and also for electropolished-benchmark-samples.
The fatigue performance is found to be rather poor and not particularly dependent on microstructure.
The bi-modal microstructure shows a slightly superior high cycle fatigue performance.
This performance can be further improved by a suitable heat treatment to an endurance limit of 200 MPa.
Continuing deve7lopments in artificial intelligence and quantum computing challenge the information security of physical assets and intellectual property.
Photochromic materials have emerged as promising candidates for optical encryption and storage applications due to their intrinsic reversible, real-time light absorption modulation capability.
Although all-inorganic devices exhibit pronounced stability and fatigue resistance, single-component multicolor photochromic systems remain exceedingly rare.
Here, a multicolor photochromic phenomenon is reported in PbMoO
To improve longevity and performance of dental implants by reducing stress-shielding, a modification of the internal structure of the implant can be a solution.
In this paper the inner design of the implant is generated either using a topology optimization approach or an approach based on TPMS lattice structures.
These approaches aim to maintain long-term stability and to reduce stress-shielding.
For both approaches, the mechanostat model was applied to investigate the influence of the inner structure to the surrounding bone tissue and compare the standard uniform implant.
For the investigation an ANSYS model was used with material parameters obtained from a mechanical test of additively manufactured Ti6Al4V.
Compared to the uniform implant, the topology-optimized implant showed 20% less stress-shielding, and the implant with triply periodic minimal surface structures (TPMS) showed 15% less stress-shielding.
Further, the long-term-stability was investigated by introducing a high-cycle fatigue material model.
Despite a change in the internal structure and a 45% reduction in the mass of the topology-optimized implant, the cycle numbers specified in the DIN EN ISO 14801 standard were fulfilled.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of low and high viscosities of dual-cured resin cement on the mechanical fatigue behavior of yttria tetragonal zirconia polycrystals (3Y-TZP) and yttria-stabilized zirconia (4YSZ) adhesively luted to a dentin analogue (glass fiber-reinforced epoxy resin).
Ceramic discs were randomly divided into four groups (n = 20) based on the following study factors: dual-cured resin cement viscosities (low and high) and zirconia microstructure (3Y-TZP and 4YSZ).
The discs were treated by air abrasion with aluminum oxide particles (50 μm), followed by the application of primer, and then luted with high or low viscosity resin cement to the dentin analogue.
Subsequently, the luted sets underwent a step-stress fatigue test, which involved an initial load of 200 N, step increments of 100 N, 10,000 cycles per step, and a frequency of 20 Hz.
Data on fatigue failure load (FFL) and the number of cycles for failure (CFF) were collected and analyzed using survival tests, including Kaplan-Meier and Mantel-Cox analyses, as well as Weibull analysis.
Additionally, topography analysis, fractographic features, bonding interface analysis, and Raman spectroscopy were performed.
The results revealed that 3Y-TZP exhibited superior fatigue behavior compared to 4YSZ, regardless of the viscosity of the resin cement used for luting.
Among all groups, 3Y-Low exhibited the best fatigue performance, while 4YSZ luted with low or high viscosity resin cements yielded the lowest fatigue behavior (FFL).
There were no significant differences in Weibull modulus among the groups.
After air abrasion, both ceramics showed similar topography.
Raman analysis indicated that the surface of 3Y-TZP ceramics prior to sintering had a monoclinic phase, which transitioned predominantly to tetragonal phase peaks after sintering.
A similar transition was observed in 4YSZ ceramics.
In summary, 3Y-TZP exhibited superior mechanical fatigue behavior compared to 4YSZ.
The influence of resin cement viscosity on fatigue behavior was more pronounced in 3Y-TZP, with low-viscosity resin cement enhancing its performance.
However, the mechanical fatigue behavior of 4YSZ was less affected by the viscosity of the dual-cured resin cement, showing similar results with both low and high viscosities.
In conclusion, 3Y-TZP demonstrated superior mechanical fatigue behavior compared to 4YSZ.
The impact of resin cement viscosity on fatigue behavior was more pronounced in 3Y-TZP, with low-viscosity resin cement enhancing its performance.
Conversely, the mechanical fatigue behavior of 4YSZ was less sensitive to the viscosity of the dual-cured resin cement, resulting in similar outcomes with both low and high viscosities.
Chipping within veneering porcelain has resulted in high clinical failure rates for implant-supported zirconia (yttria-tetragonal zirconia polycrystals [Y-TZP]) bridges.
This study evaluated the reliability and failure modes of mouth-motion step-stress fatigued implant-supported Y-TZP versus palladium-silver alloy (PdAg) three-unit bridges.
Implant-abutment replicas were embedded in polymethylmethacrylate resin.
Y-TZP and PdAg frameworks, of similar design (n = 21 each), were fabricated, veneered, cemented (n = 3 each), and Hertzian contact-tested to obtain ultimate failure load.
In each framework group, 18 specimens were distributed across three step-stress profiles and mouth-motion cyclically loaded according to the profile on the lingual slope of the buccal cusp of the pontic.
PdAg failures included competing flexural cracking at abutment and/or connector area and chipping, whereas Y-TZP presented predominantly cohesive failure within veneering porcelain.
Including all failure modes, the reliability (two-sided at 90% confidence intervals) for a "mission" of 50,000 and 100,000 cycles at 300 N load was determined (Alta Pro, Reliasoft, Tucson, AZ, USA).
No difference in reliability was observed between groups for a mission of 50,000.
Reliability remained unchanged for a mission of 100,000 for PdAg, but significantly decreased for Y-TZP.
Higher reliability was found for PdAg for a mission of 100,000 cycles at 300 N.
Failure modes differed between materials.
Aeroengine and powertrain components operate under elevated temperatures and cyclic loading, making them prone to fatigue failure.
Laser cladding (LC) has emerged as a sustainable repair technology due to its strong metallurgical bonding and flexible processing.
However, rapid thermal cycles during LC can introduce defects such as pores, cracks, and inclusions that impair fatigue performance.
Ni60A alloy is widely used in LC for its excellent processability, and reinforcement with tungsten carbide (WC) enhances wear and fatigue resistance through interfacial bonding, dislocation hindrance, and the formation of hard phases.
Despite advances, high-cycle fatigue (HCF) behavior and fracture mechanisms in LC-repaired components remain underexplored-particularly the role of WC particle size, distribution, and interaction with dislocations.
This study examines tensile and HCF properties of Ni60A/25%WC laser-clad coatings at room temperature.
S-N curves were generated and fracture surfaces analyzed to understand fatigue crack initiation and propagation.
Energy-dispersive spectroscopy was used to investigate the influence of WC/W
We investigated a commercial Co-Cr-alloy head--Ti6Al4V alloy neck and Ti6Al4V stem modular total hip replacement.
We assessed the distraction forces after in vitro cycling in bovine serum, fatigue durability, fretting corrosion damage, and load bearing capacity of new implants using fatigue-corrosion, pull-off, scanning electron microscopy, fatigue and compression investigations.
In addition, we studied corrosion, fretting damage, and distraction forces on retrievals.
For both retrievals and in vitro test samples, the neck-stem interface required the higher distraction force as compared with the head-neck interface.
One of 12 retrievals showed strong fretting corrosion at the neck-stem interface which resulted in a high disassembly force of about 16 kN.
For in vitro test samples, the neck-stem pull-off force initially increased during cycling and showed a maximum value of 5.704 kN at ∼100,000 cycles, which is equivalent to gait cycles performed in approximately 36 days.
Overall, assembly force, initial component settling, and interface corrosion primarily determine the force required to distract the modular components.
One million cycles fatigue failure of the neck can be expected at a maximum compression load of -6.5 kN.
No component failure was observed during quasistatic compression; rather the neck deformed plastically and the ultimate compression load-bearing capacity was -13 kN.
The pronounced wake-up and fatigue phenomena in HfO
The objective is to establish an approximate relative fatigue life estimation method under simulated mastication load for thin-walled monolithic restorations.
Experimentally measured fatigue parameters of fluormica, leucite, lithium disilicate and yttrium-stabilized zirconia in the existing literature were expressed in terms of the maximum cyclic stress and stress corresponding to initial crack size prior to N number of loading cycles to assess their differences.
Assuming that failures mostly originate from high stress region, an approximate restoration life method was explored by ignoring the multi-axial nature of stress state.
Experiments utilizing a simple trilayer restoration model with ceramic LD were performed to test the model validity.
Ceramic fatigue was found to be similar for clinically relevant loading range and mastication frequency, resulting in the development of an approximate fatigue equation that is universally applicable to a wide range of dental ceramic materials.
The equation was incorporated into the approximate restoration life estimation, leading to a simple expression in terms of fast fracture parameters, high stress area ΔA, the high stress averaged over ΔA and N.
The developed method was preliminarily verified by the experiments.
The impact of fast fracture parameters on the restoration life was separated from other factors, and the importance of surface preparation was manifested in the simplified equation.
Both the maximum stress and the area of high stress region were also shown to play critical roles.
While nothing can replace actual clinical studies, this method could provide a reasonable preliminary estimation of relative restoration life.
As the lightest structural metal material, magnesium alloy is increasingly widely used in aerospace, rail transportation and other fields.
However, during its service, the action of alternating loads often induces fatigue fracture damage, which seriously threatens its service safety and stability.
This study investigates the fatigue behaviors of Mg-3Al-Zn (AZ31) magnesium alloy along its rolling direction (RD) and normal direction (ND) under strain-controlled tension-tension cyclic loading.
The strain-life curve reveals that ND specimens in which the deformation was dominated by twinning-detwinning exhibits higher fatigue life than RD specimens dominated by slip.
Morphological analysis of crack patterns indicates many grain boundary fractures and long surface cracks in RD specimens, contrasting with the ND specimens' uniform distribution of short, linear cracks throughout the texture.
Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Electron Backscatter Diffraction (EBSD) analyses suggest that crack initiation in RD specimens is likely at grain boundaries due to deformation incompatibility between the grains with soft and hard directions.
Conversely, the cracks of ND specimen predominantly formed at the {10
The current study aims to simulate fatigue microdamage accumulation in glycated cortical bone with increased advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) using a phase field fatigue framework.
We link the material degradation in the fracture toughness of cortical bone to the high levels of AGEs in this tissue.
We simulate fatigue fracture in 2D models of cortical bone microstructure extracted from human tibias.
The results present that the mismatch between the critical energy release rate of microstructural features (e.g., osteons and interstitial tissue) can alter crack initiation and propagation patterns.
Moreover, the high AGEs content through the increased mismatch ratio can cause the activation or deactivation of bone toughening mechanisms under cyclic loading.
The fatigue fracture simulations also show that the lifetime of diabetic cortical bone samples can be dependent on the geometry of microstructural features and the mismatch ratio between the features.
Additionally, the results indicate that the trapped cracks in cement lines in the diabetic cortical microstructure can prevent further crack growth under cyclic loading.
The present findings show that alterations in the materials heterogeneity of microstructural features can change the fatigue fracture response, lifetime, and fragility of cortical bone with high AGEs contents.
Cortical bone models are created from microscopy images taken from the cortical cross-section of human tibias.
Increased glycation contents in the cortical bone sample can change the crack growth trajectories.
Intraoperative contouring of posterior rods in lumbar arthrodesis constructs introduces stress concentrations that can substantially reduce fatigue life.
The sensitivity of titanium (Ti) and stainless steel (SS) to intraoperative contouring has been established in the literature; however, notch sensitivity has yet to be quantified for cobalt chrome (CoCr), which is now being advocated for use in posterior arthrodesis constructs.
The goal of this study is to evaluate the sensitivity of CoCr rods to intraoperative contouring for posterior lumbar screwrod arthrodesis constructs.
In this paper lumbar bilateral vertebrectomy models are constructed based on ASTM F1717-01 with curved rods (26-30 degrees total curvature) and poly-axial pedicle screws.
Three types of constructs are assembled: first, 5.5 mm SS rods with SS screws (6.5 x 35 mm), second, 6.0 mm Ti rods with Ti screws (7.5 x 35 mm), and third, 6.0 mm CoCr rods with Ti screws (7.5 x 35 mm).
All specimens are tested at 4 Hz in dynamic axial compression-bending with a load ratio of ten and maximum load levels of 250, 400, and 700 N until run-out at 2 000 000 cycles.
Results are presented that show that the fatigue life of CoCr constructs tend to be greater than Ti constructs at all levels.
At the 400 N maximum loading, CoCr lasts an average of 350 000 cycles longer than the Ti constructs.
The CoCr constructs are able to sustain the 250 N load until run-out at 2 000 000 cycles but they fail at high load levels (maximum 700 N).
The CoCr constructs fail at the neck of the Ti screw at high loads whereas Ti screws fail at the notch induced by contouring.
Since CoCr is compatible with magnetic resonance imaging and has high static strength characteristics, the results of this study suggest that it may be an appropriate substitute for Ti.
Coronary heart disease has become the most common source for death in western industrial countries.
Since 1986, a metal vessel scaffold (stent) is inserted to prevent the vessel wall from collapsing [Puel, J., Joffre, F., Rousseau, H., Guermonprez, B., Lancelin, B., Valeix, B., Imbert, G., Bounhoure, J.P, 1987.
Endo-prothéses coronariennes autoexpansives dans la Préevention des resténoses apés angioplastie transluminale.
Archives des Maladies du Coeur et des Vaisseaux, 1311--1312].
Most of these coronary stents are made from CrNiMo-steel (AISI 316L).
Due to its austenitic structure, the material shows strength and ductility combined with corrosion resistance and a satisfactory biocompatibility.
However, recent studies indicate that Nickel is under discussion as to its allergenic potential. Other typically used materials like Co-Base L605 or Tantalum alloys are relatively expensive and are not used so often.
Newly developed austenitic high-nitrogen CrMnMoN-steels (AHNS) may offer an alternative.
Traditional material tests revealed that strength and ductility, as well as corrosion resistance and biocompatibility, are as good as or even better than those of 316L [Vogt, J.B., Degallaix, S., Foct J., 1984.
Low cycle fatigue life enhancement of 316L stainless steel by nitrogen alloying.
International Journal of Fatigue 6 (4), 211-215, Menzel, J., Stein, G., 1996.
High nitrogen containing Ni-free austenitic steels for medical applications.
ISIJ Intern 36 (7), 893-900, Gavriljuk, V.G., Berns, H., 1999.
High nitrogen steels, Springer Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg].
However, because of a strut diameter of about 100 microm, the cross section consists of about five to ten crystal grains (oligo-crystalline).
Thus very few, or even just one, grain can be responsible for the success or failure of the whole stent.
During implantation, the structure of coronary artery stents is subjected to distinct inhomogeneous plastic deformation due to crimping and dilation.
Weathering steel possesses good atmospheric corrosion resistance and is increasingly applied in highway and railway bridges.
The fatigue performance of the weld joint is an important issue in bridge engineering.
This study experimentally investigates the microstructural properties and fracture crack growth behaviors of a Q370qENH bridge weathering steel weld joint.
The FCG parameters of the base steel, butt weld, and HAZs, considering the effect of different plate thicknesses and stress ratios, are analyzed.
Microstructural features, microhardness, and fatigue fracture surfaces are carefully inspected.
The FCG rates of different weld regions in the stable crack growth stage are obtained using integral formulas based on the Paris and Walker law.
The test results indicate that the heating and cooling process during the welding of Q370qENH steel creates improved microstructures with refined grain sizes and fewer impurities, thus leading to improved FCG performances in the HAZ and weld regions.
The crack growth rate of Q370qENH weld regions increases with the stress ratio, and the influencing extent increasingly ranks as the base steel, HAZ, and the weld.
The thick plate has a slightly slower fatigue crack growth rate for the Q370qENH weld joints.
The Q370qENH base steel presents the highest fatigue crack growth rate, followed by the heat-treated and HAZ cases, while the weld area exhibits the lowest FCG rate.
The Paris law coefficients of different regions of Q370qENH welds are presented.
The collected data serve as a valuable reference for future analyses of fatigue crack propagation problems of Q370qENH steel bridge joints.
This investigation compared initial and fatigue strengths of particle-abraded ceramics to those of as-polished alumina and zirconia ceramics in crown-like layer structures.
Alumina or zirconia plates bonded to polycarbonate substrates were subjected to single-cycle and multi-cycle contact (fatigue) loading.
Cementation surfaces of the ceramic were damaged by controlled particle abrasion, indentation with a sharp diamond at low load, or a blunt indenter at high load.
The stresses needed to initiate radial fractures were evaluated.
The strengths of specimens were lowered by fatigue loading.
After the equivalent of 1 year of occlusal contacts, the strengths of undamaged specimens degraded to approximately half of their single-cycle values.
In particle-abraded specimens, an additional 20% to 30% drop in strength occurred after several hundred load cycles.
Particle abrasion damage was approximately equivalent to damage from sharp indentation at low load or blunt indentation at high load.
Damage from particle abrasion, not necessarily immediately apparent, compromised the fatigue strength of zirconia and alumina ceramics in crown-like structures.
In fatigue, small flaws introduced by particle abrasion can outweigh any countervailing strengthening effect from compression associated with surface damage or, in the case of zirconia, with phase transformation.
To characterize the mechanical properties of different coating methods of DLC (diamond-like carbon) onto dental implant abutment screws, and their effect on the probability of survival (reliability).
Seventy-five abutment screws were allocated into three groups according to the coating method: control (no coating); UMS - DLC applied through unbalanced magnetron sputtering; RFPA-DLC applied through radio frequency plasma-activated (n=25/group).
Twelve screws (n=4) were used to determine the hardness and Young's modulus (YM).
A 3D finite element model composed of titanium substrate, DLC-layer and a counterpart were constructed.
The deformation (μm) and shear stress (MPa) were calculated.
The remaining screws of each group were torqued into external hexagon abutments and subjected to step-stress accelerated life-testing (SSALT) (n=21/group).
The probability Weibull curves and reliability (probability survival) were calculated considering the mission of 100, 150 and 200N at 50,000 and 100,000 cycles.
DLC-coated experimental groups evidenced higher hardness than control (p<0.05).
In silico analysis depicted that the higher the surface Young's modulus, the higher the shear stress.
Control and RFPA showed β<1, indicating that failures were attributed to materials strength; UMS showed β>1 indicating that fatigue contributed to failure.
High reliability was depicted at a mission of 100N.
At 200N a significant decrease in reliability was detected for all groups (ranging from 39% to 66%).
No significant difference was observed among groups regardless of mission.
Screw fracture was the chief failure mode.
DLC-coating have been used to improve titanium's mechanical properties and increase the reliability of dental implant-supported restorations.
Fibre-reinforced polymeric composite materials are becoming substantial and convenient materials in the repair and replacement of traditional metallic materials due to their high stiffness.
The composites undergo different types of fatigue loads during their service life.
The drive to enhance the design methodologies and predictive models of fibre-reinforced polymeric composite materials subjected to fatigue stresses is reliant on more precise and reliable techniques for assessing their fatigue life.
The influences of fibre volume fraction and stress level on the fatigue performance of glass fibre-reinforced polyester (GFRP) composite materials have been studied in the tension-tension fatigue scenario.
The fibre volume fractions for this investigation were set to: 20%, 35%, and 50%.
The tensile testing of specimens was performed using a universal testing machine and the Young's modulus was validated with four different prediction models.
In order to identify the modes of failure as well as the fatigue life of composites, polyester-based GFRP specimens were evaluated at five stress levels which were 75%, 65%, 50%, 40%, and 25% of the maximum tensile stress until either a fracture occurred or five million fatigue cycles was reached.
The experimental results showed that glass fibre-reinforced polyester samples had a pure tension failure at high applied stress levels, while at low stress levels the failure mode was governed by stress levels.
Finally, the experimental results of GFRP composite samples with different volume fractions were utilized for model validation and comparison, which showed that the proposed framework yields acceptable correlations of predicted fatigue lives in tension-tension fatigue regimes with experimental ones.
Zirconia frameworks milled by computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD-CAM) often require clinical adjustments.
In addition, zirconia prefabricated abutments can also require customization to achieve an adequate emergence profile.
However, the influence of grinding adjustment on the surface characteristics and mechanical behavior of yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia polycrystal (Y-TZP) and the best grinding protocol is unclear.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the effect of different grinding protocols on the surface characteristics, phase transformation, and mechanical behavior of Y-TZP for frameworks and implant abutments.
Bar-shaped specimens were fabricated according to ISO 6872-2016 and divided into 3 groups: GC (control, untreated), GA (grinding and finishing with medium and fine diamond rotary instruments using high-speed handpiece under constant water cooling), and GB (grinding and finishing with coarse and medium diamond rotary instruments, respectively, using slow-speed handpiece without water cooling).
After specimen grinding, the topography and surface roughness were evaluated by using a laser confocal microscope, the Young modulus was measured by the impulse excitation technique, and crystallographic phase transformation was analyzed by X-ray diffraction.
Specimens were then submitted to step-stress accelerated life testing (n=18).
The surface roughness and Young modulus results were analyzed by 1-way ANOVA and the Tukey honestly significant difference test (α=.05).
The data of step-stress accelerated life testing were analyzed by the survival probability considering the number of cycles and force until fracture.
Statistically significant differences were found among groups considering surface roughness (GA>GB>GC) (P<.05) and Young modulus (GB>GA=GC) (P=.003).
X-ray diffraction showed that grinding leads to phase transformation, GC showed only tetragonal phase, while GA and GB showed tetragonal and monoclinic phases.
No statistically significant difference (P<.05) was found among groups submitted to the same loading profile when the survival probability was compared, but significant difference was found between the light and moderate loading (P=.002) and light and severe loading (P=.014) of GB when different loading profiles in each group were compared.
Although grinding protocols affected surface characteristics and promoted phase transformation, the mechanical behavior of Y-TZP was not impaired.
Therefore, both the grinding protocols tested can be safely used based on the evaluated properties.
This paper presents the microstructural characteristics and mechanical properties of linear friction-welded (LFWed) Ti-6Al-2Sn-4Zr-2Mo-0.1Si (Ti-6242) in as-welded (AWed) and stress relief-annealed (SRAed) conditions.
The weld center (WC) of the AWed Ti-6242 consisted of recrystallized prior-β grains with α' martensite that were tempered during SRA at 800 °C for 2 h and transformed into an acicular α + β microstructure.
The peak hardness values, obtained in the AWed joints at the WC, sharply decreased through the thermomechanically affected zones (TMAZs) to the heat-affected zone (HAZ) of the Ti-6242 parent metal (PM).
The SRA lowered the peak hardness values at the WC slightly and fully recovered the observed softening in the HAZ.
The tensile mechanical properties of the welds in the AWed and SRAed conditions surpassed the minimum requirements in the AMS specifications for the Ti-6242 alloy.
Fatigue tests, performed on the SRAed welds, indicated a fatigue limit of 468 MPa at 10
Polyetheretherketone (PEEK), a high-strength, aesthetic, and non-allergic thermoplastic polymer, recently became a candidate for replacing metallic components in dental prosthesis.
However, as PEEK is flexible, the need for retention presents a key challenge in terms of its clinical application.
In this study, clasps prepared using PEEK were optimized and evaluated to provide the mechanical properties required by dentures.
Seventy-two three-dimensional rod-shape models, based on four thickness/width ratios, three base widths, and six taper ratios were created.
These models were analyzed using finite-element methods to determine which modified clasp arm shape provided the most appropriate mechanical properties.
Three shape-optimized PEEK specimens and one standard-shape Co-Cr alloy specimen were then fabricated.
Constant-displacement fatigue testing was performed to calculate load values and deformations after ten years of clinical use.
Shape optimization indicated a maximum stress concentration that was consistently located at the base of the specimen, a correlation between mean load values and thickness that was greater than that with the width, and a correlation between taper ratio and mean load values.
Fatigue testing showed that although PEEK exhibited significantly lower average load values than the Co-Cr alloy, these were sufficient for clinical use.
All specimens exhibited significant deformation during the first period of cycling; however, there was no significant difference in the deformation between the two materials after fatigue testing.
PEEK exerts fewer stresses on abutments compared to standard-alloy clasps, provides adequate retention, and satisfy aesthetic demands, indicating that PEEK presents a promising alternative to conventional metal clasps.
Ultra fine-grained metals obtained by severe plastic deformation exhibit higher specific strength that is useful for many applications and show promise for use as body implants.
This work studied the microstructural evolution, mechanical and sliding wear behavior and corrosion behavior of 316L stainless steel warm multi axially forged at 600°C.
Microstructural evolution studied using electron backscatter diffraction technique and transmission electron microscopy confirmed the formation of ultra fine-grained structure.
Average grain size reduced from 30μm to 0.86μm after nine strain steps.
A combination of Hall-Petch strengthening and strain hardening increased the hardness.
Improved sliding wear resistance is attributed to a transition from micro cutting to wedge-forming mode of abrasive wear.
Load-bearing orthopedic implants often fail from pitting initiated corrosion fatigue.
Potentiodynamic tests, cyclic polarization, and FeCl3 immersion tests revealed enhanced pitting resistance of forged steel that is confirmed by Mott-Schottky analysis.
This is ascribed to an increase in the grain boundary volume, and homogenization of pit inducing impurities and non-metallic phases due to severe deformation, which influenced the passive film properties.
These model studies on 316L steel demonstrate that severely deformed ultra fine-grained metals have potential to deliver improved implant performance.
This model study on 316L steel demonstrates that severely deformed ultra fine-grained (UFG) metals have potential to deliver improved load-bearing implant performance.
It is as interesting as is unclear as to how such severely deformed UFG material behaves electrochemically in the corrosive body fluids.
This work is on studying the inter-relationship between structure, and mechanical, wear, and corrosion behavior of warm multiaxially forged (MAFed) UFG 316L stainless steel.
Warm MAF is a bulk processing method capable of yielding large volume of UFG material and is an easily readily adaptable technique in industry.
It can be a promising alternative to the expensive metallic alloys available for implant applications.
The S-N diagram (applied stress vs. cycles to failure) for the gold-palladium alloy/585 solder combination was generated.
Au-Pd alloy specimens were cast, prepared for soldering, and joined with 585 solder.
After milling and polishing of the joint, testing was carried out in a specially designed machine.
This device loaded the cantilevered test specimen in a unidirectional mode at a rate of 70 strokes per minute.
The applied tensile stress ranged between 294.2 and 686.5 MPa. Three specimens were cycled for each stress level until fracture occurred.
The number of fatigue cycles to failure ranged from one cycle (stress level, 686.5 MPa) to 4.83 x 10(6) cycles (stress level, 294.2 MPa).
On a logarithmic scale, the relationship between the applied stress and the number of cycles to failure was linear.
Under the present (ideal) experimental conditions, the Au-Pd/585 solder combination behaved favorably on the high-cycle end of the diagram.
However, no definite endurance limit could be detected within the stress range examined.
With a better balance among good mechanical performance, high freedom of design, and low material and manufacturing cost, chopped carbon fiber chip reinforced sheet molding compound (SMC) composites show great potential in different engineering applications.
In this paper, bending fatigue behaviors of SMC composites considering the heterogeneous fiber orientation distributions have been thoroughly investigated utilizing both experimental and computational methods.
First, four-point bending fatigue tests are performed with designed SMC composites, and the local modulus is adopted as a metric to represent the local fiber orientation of two opposing sides.
Interestingly, SMC composites with and without large discrepancy in local modulus of opposing sides show different fatigue behaviors.
Interrupted tests are conducted to explore the bending fatigue failure mechanism, and the damage processes of valid specimens are also closely examined.
We find that the fatigue failure of SMC composites under four-point bending is governed by crack propagation instead of crack initiation.
Because of this, the heterogeneous local fiber orientations of both sides of the specimen influence fatigue life.
The microstructure of the lower side shows a direct influence while that of the upper side also exhibiting influence which becomes more prominent for high cycle fatigue cases.
Furthermore, a hybrid micro-macro computational model is proposed to efficiently study the cyclic bending behavior of SMC composites.
The region of interest is reconstructed with a modified random sequential absorption algorithm to conserve all the microstructural details including the heterogeneous fiber orientation, while the rest of the regions are modeled as homogenized macro-scale continua.
Combined with a framework to capture the progressive fatigue damage under cyclic bending, the bending fatigue behaviors of SMC composites are accurately captured by the hybrid computational model comparing with our experimental analysis.
Microdamage resulting from fatigue or 'wear and tear' loading contributes to bone fragility; however, the full extent of its influence is not completely understood.
Linear microcracks (∼50-100 μm) and diffuse damage (clusters of sublamellar-sized cracks) are the two major bone microdamage types, each with different mechanical and biological consequences.
Healthy bone, due to its numerous microstructural interfaces and its ability to affect matrix level repair, deals effectively with microdamage.
From a material standpoint, healthy bone behaves much like engineering composites like carbon-fiber reinforced plastics.
Both materials allow matrix damage to form during fatigue loading and use microstructural interfaces to dissipate energy and limit microcrack propagation to slow fracture.
The terms fracture toughness and 'toughening mechanism', respectively, describe mechanical behavior and microstructural features that prevent crack growth and make it harder to fracture a material. Critically, toughness is independent of strength.
In bone, primary toughening features include mineral and collagen interfaces, lamellae and tissue heterogeneity among osteons.
The damage tolerance of bone and other composites can be overcome with sustained loading and/or matrix changes such that the microstructure no longer limits microcrack propagation.
With reduced remodeling due to aging, disease or remodeling suppression, microdamage accumulation can occur along with loss of tissue heterogeneity.
Both contribute additively to reduced fracture toughness.
Thus, the answer to the key question for bone fragility of how much microdamage is too much is extremely complex.
It ultimately depends on the interplay between matrix damage content, internal repair and effectiveness of matrix-toughening mechanisms.
The purposes of this study were to investigate the effects of thermal residual stresses on the reliability and lifetime of zirconia-veneer crowns.
One hundred and twenty eight second upper premolar zirconia-veneer crowns were manufactured for testing the initial strength (n=64) and under cyclic fatigue (n=64).
Zirconia copings (YZ Cubes, VITA Zahnfabrik, CTE: alphac=10.5 ppm/°C) were milled using a Cerec3 InLab (Sirona) machine and sintered to a final thickness of 0.7 mm. Sixty-four copings were sandblasted with 105 μm alumina particles (15 s, 3 cm distance, 45° angle, 0.4 MPa pressure) in order to trigger a tetragonalmonoclinic transformation and to produce a rough surface.
The copings were veneered using two different porcelains (VM9, VITA Zahnfabrik, CTE: alphaVM9=9.1 ppm/°C, Lava Ceram, 3M ESPE, CTE: alphaLava=10.2 ppm/°C) so to result in crowns with either high thermal mismatch (+1.4 ppm/°C with VM9) and low thermal mismatch (+0.3 ppm/°C with Lava Ceram).
The porcelains were applied by the same operator and fired (VITA Vacumat 4000) according to the firing schedules defined by the manufacturers to a final thickness of 1.4mm (total crown thickness=2.1mm, core/veneer ratio=0.5).
After the last glaze firing the crowns were cooled following a fast (600°C/min) or a slow (30°C/min) cooling protocol.
The glazed crowns were submitted to a sliding-motion (0.7 mm lateral movement) cyclic fatigue in a chewing simulator (SD Mechatronik) under 20 kg (~200 N load) weight until failure (chipping) (n=16).
The other half of the crowns were subjected to a compressive loading test in an universal testing machine (Instron model 4240) until failure at a cross-head speed of 0.75 mm/min (n=16).
The failure probability for initial strength and cyclic fatigue was performed using a Weibull distribution approach at a scale factor of n=16.
The compressive strength test showed a low sensitivity to detect reliability variations regarding thermal stresses created within the veneer layer of tested crowns.
For cyclic fatigue, slow cooling resulted in statistically higher cycles to failure only for the crowns that presented a high thermal mismatch between core and veneer (VM9 group).
Comparisons between veneers with high or low thermal mismatches showed statistically higher sigma0 for Lava Ceram-veneered crowns only when the groups were fast-cooled.
Minimizing the thermal residual stresses within the veneer through the use of a veneer with a closer CTE to the zirconia delays the failure of zirconia-veneer crowns.
Slow-cooling increases the lifetime of crowns presenting large differences in CTE between the zirconia core and the veneering porcelain.
With the rapid development of hydrogen pipelines, their safety issues have become increasingly prominent.
In order to evaluate the properties of pipeline materials under a high-pressure hydrogen environment, this study investigates the hydrogen embrittlement sensitivity of X70 welded pipe in a 10 MPa high-pressure hydrogen environment, using slow strain rate testing (SSRT) and low-cycle fatigue (LCF) analysis.
The microstructure, slow tensile and fatigue fracture morphology of base metal (BM) and weld metal (WM) were characterized and analyzed by means of ultra-depth microscope, scanning electron microscope (SEM), electron backscattering diffraction (EBSD), and transmission electron microscope (TEM).
Results indicate that while the high-pressure hydrogen environment has minimal impact on ultimate tensile strength (UTS) for both BM and WM, it significantly decreases reduction of area (RA) and elongation (EL), with RA reduction in WM exceeding that in BM.
Under the nitrogen environment, the slow tensile fracture of X70 pipeline steel BM and WM is a typical ductile fracture, while under the high-pressure hydrogen environment, the unevenness of the slow tensile fracture increased, and a large number of microcracks appeared on the fracture surface and edges, with the fracture mode changing to ductile fracture + quasi-cleavage fracture.
In addition, the high-pressure hydrogen environment reduces the fatigue life of the BM and WM of X70 pipeline steel, and the fatigue life of the WM decreases more than that of the BM as well.
Compared to the nitrogen environment, the fatigue fracture specimens of BM and WM in the hydrogen environment showed quasi-cleavage fracture patterns, and the fracture area in the instantaneous fracture zone (IFZ) was significantly reduced.
Compared with the BM of X70 pipeline steel, although the effective grain size of the WM is smaller, WM's microstructure, with larger Martensite/austenite (M/A) constituents and MnS and Al-rich oxides, contributes to a heightened embrittlement sensitivity.
In contrast, the second-phase precipitation of nanosized Nb, V, and Ti composite carbon-nitride in the BM acts as an effective irreversible hydrogen trap, which can significantly reduce the hydrogen embrittlement sensitivity.
The aim of this study was to measure the linear elastic material properties of direct dental resin composites and correlate them with their fatigue strength under cyclic loading.
Bar specimens of twelve resin composites were produced according to ISO 4049 and tested for elastic modulus (Emod) in 3-point bending (n=10), flexural strength (FS) (n=15) and single-edge-notch-beam fracture toughness (FT) (n=15), both in 4-point bending.
Using the same specimen geometry, the flexural fatigue strength (FFS) was determined using the staircase approach after 10(4) cycles at 0.5 Hz in 4-point bending (n=25).
The observation of the fracture surface and fracture profiles was conducted using a scanning electron microscope in order to evaluate the respective fracture mechanisms according to the two different loading conditions.
Materials were ranked differently according to the tested parameters.
Only weak correlations were found between any of the initial properties and FFS or strength loss.
The best correlation to FFS was found to be the Emod (r(2)=0.679), although only slightly.
Crack path in both loading conditions was mainly interparticle, with the crack propagating mainly within the matrix phase for fatigued specimens and eventually through the filler/matrix interface for statically loaded specimens.
Fracture of large particles or prepolymerized fillers was only observed in specimens of FS and FT.
Initial properties were better associated with microstructural features, whereas the fatigue resistance showed to be more dependent on aspects relating to the matrix phase.
Our results show that linear elastic properties such as elastic modulus, flexural strength and fracture toughness are not good descriptors of the fatigue resistance of dental resin composite under cyclic bending, and may therefore have limited clinical relevance.
Stress-assisted grain growth at room temperature is known for materials with nanocrystalline grains.
For larger grain sizes, the grain growth usually takes place at higher homologous temperatures even under stress.
Here we report, for the first time, significant grain growth at room temperature under fatigue loading in microcrystalline grains (≥10 μm) in Al 7075.
We demonstrate that this grain growth at room temperature is similar to non-uniform grain growth due to grain rotation and coalescence rather than the thermally and the stress-assisted driven grain growth.
We show that the grain growth is associated with the formation of a strong near-Cu {112}<111> texture component as a result of fatigue-assisted deformation.
These changes in microstructural features (viz., grain size, grain orientations and texture) are fundamentally important in understanding the cyclic crack induced deformation behavior and for predicting the fatigue lifetime in structural materials.
Elastic carbon aerogels have promising applications in the field of wearable sensors.
Herein, a new strategy for preparing carbon aerogels with excellent compressive strength and strain, shape recovery, and fatigue resistance was proposed based on the structure design and carbonization optimization of nanocellulose-based precursor aerogels.
By the combination of directional freezing and zinc ion cross-linking, bacterial cellulose (BC)/alginate (SA) composite aerogels with high elasticity and compressive strength were first achieved.
The existance of zinc ions also significantly improved the carbon retention rate and inhibited structural shrinkage, thus making the carbon aerogels retain ultra-high elasticity and fatigue resistance after compression.
Moreover, the carbon aerogel possessed excellent piezoresistive pressure sensing performance with a wide detection range of 0-7.8 kPa, high sensitivity of 11.04 kpa
The paper is focused on testing the weld of the S960MC steel produced at the micro-jet cooling under static and fatigue loading at critical parameters.
This kind of material was in the form of a sheet with a thickness equal to 2 mm. The joint was obtained using three different types of welding wires: EDFK 1000, Union NiMoCr and Union X96 at the same parameters of the process.
The joints were examined using non-destructive and destructive tests.
The results from non-destructive experiments enable us to assess the quality of the welds directly before the joining process.
In contrast, the destructive one allows following welds behavior under different loading conditions with their critical parameters.
The bending experiments confirmed the good plastic properties of the weld, expressed by no cracks in the region tested in many variants of the joint manufactured.
The results from static tests indicated a significant reduction of mechanical parameters of the weld in comparison to the base metal, expressed by 50% differences.
Fatigue data have enabled us to follow the welding behavior at the increasing amplitude of axial stress up to fracture at constant amplitude value covering the following values of stress 650 MPa-100 MPa. Variations of total energy are presented at different values of several cycles up to fracture.
Fracture regions are collected for analysis of the joint region features under cyclic loading.
They have indicated differences in weld cracking depended on the stress level.
Finally, the Wöhler S-N curve of the weld was determined, indicating the value of the fatigue limit of the weld tested, i.e., 100 MPa. The weld at the Union NiMoCr welding wire was indicated as the joint having the highest resistance on static and fatigue loadings.
More than a decade of research on the electrocaloric (EC) effect has resulted in EC materials and EC multilayer chips that satisfy a minimum EC temperature change of 5 K required for caloric heat pumps
Material fatigue from alternating structural evolution degrades electrochemical performance through local collapse and deactivation, with the key challenge being preservation of active-site durability.
To minimize structural deformation while sustaining reaction kinetics, topological disorder engineering offers a synergistic pathway integrating energy level mergence with high structural freedom.
Here, we propose high-entropy amorphous oxides (HEAOs) as a model system featuring intrinsic self-adaptive topological disorder.
Their dynamic metal-oxygen coordination network enables exceptional structural relaxation, where flexible M-O-M linkages and multicomponent integration cooperatively induce d-d electron transfer and/or d-p orbital coupling.
These electronic interactions trigger localized charge redistribution for self-adaptive compensation under alternating electrochemical conditions such as CO
Fatigue crack propagation in near-threshold regime was studied in the 304L austenitic stainless steel in two microstructural states: as-received (AR) with finer microstructure and low susceptibility to the transformation-induced plasticity (TRIP) effect, and solution-annealed (SA) with coarser microstructure and higher susceptibility to TRIP.
This paper aims to investigate the fatigue cracking evolution of cold recycled asphalt mixtures with asphalt emulsion (CRME) under different curing times.
The fatigue cracking model of CRME based on damage mechanics and fracture mechanics was analyzed according to the fatigue loading curve.
Firstly, the fatigue cracking evolution of CRME was studied through an SCB strength test and SCB fatigue test.
Then, the fatigue damage mechanics were used to establish a nonlinear fatigue cracking model, and the damage degree of CRME at the initial cracking point was determined.
The Paris formula was used to characterize the law of fatigue crack propagation.
Finally, the microstructure of CRME was observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) with the backscattering method.
The results indicate that the initial cracking point appears at around 60% of the fatigue life according to the SCB fatigue test by means of image analysis.
The damage variable was obtained through the cracking model, and the value of the damage variable was determined as 0.06-0.17 at the initial cracking point.
In addition, the Paris formula showed that the crack growth of CRME can be reflected by the stress intensity factor and correlative parameters.
Moreover, cement hydration products were mixed with the asphalt membrane to form a denser spatial structure during the curing process, which may provide higher fatigue performance of CRME.
This research may provide a theoretical reference for studying the fatigue cracking behavior of CRME.
Flexible, lightweight sensors with a wide strain-sensing range are showing increasing significance in structural health monitoring compared with conventional hard sensors, which typically have a small strain range, are heavyweight, and have a large volume.
In this work, salt particle precipitation and mechanical coating methods are used to fabricate porous graphene nanoplatelet (GNP)/polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) flexible sensors for tension monitoring in structural health applications.
The signal transformation through the Back Propagation (BP) algorithm is integrated to provide monitoring data that are comparable with other sensors.
The results reveal that the flexible sensors with a low content of GNPs (0.1-0.25 wt%) possess better flexibility, allowing tensile strains over 200% to be measured.
In addition, due to the enhanced deformation capacity of the pore structures, they can achieve high sensitivity (1-1000) under 65% strain, and a fast response time (70 ms) under 10% strain at 60 mm min
The aim of this study was to assess the fracture behavior of molar teeth restored with MOD inlays made of experimental short fiber-reinforced CAD/CAM composite block (SFRC CAD) before and after cyclic fatigue aging.
Standardized MOD cavities were prepared on 60 intact mandibular molars.
Three groups of CAD/CAM made inlay restorations (Cerasmart 270, Enamic, and SFRC CAD) were fabricated (n = 20/group).
All restorations were luted with self-adhesive dual-cure resin cement (G-Cem One).
Half of restored teeth per each group (n = 10) were quasi-statically loaded until fracture without aging.
The other half underwent cyclic fatigue aging for 500,000 cycles (F
There have been numerous efforts to understand and control the resistance of materials to fracture by repeated or cyclic stresses.
The micromechanical behaviours, particularly the distributions of stresses on the scale of grain size during or after mechanical or electrical fatigue, are crucial to a full understanding of the damage mechanisms in these materials.
Whether a large microstress develops during cyclic deformation with a small amount of monotonic strain but a large amount of accumulated strain remains an open question.
Here, we report a neutron diffraction investigation of the development of intergranular stresses, which vary as a function of grain orientations, in 316 stainless steel during high-cycle fatigue.
We found that a large intergranular stress developed before cracks started to appear.
With further increase of fatigue cycles, the intergranular stress decreased, while the elastic intragranular stored energy continued to grow.
One implication of our findings is that the ratio between the intergranular and intragranular stored energies during various stages of fatigue deformation may validate the damage mechanism and can be used as a fingerprint for monitoring the state of fatigue damage in materials.
Grit blasting is used as a cost-effective method to increase the surface roughness of metallic biomaterials, as Ti6Al4V and 316 LVM, to enhance the osteointegration, fixation and stability of implants.
Samples of these two alloys were blasted by using alumina and zirconia particles, yielding rough (up to Ra~8μm) and nearly smooth (up to Ra~1μm) surfaces, respectively.
In this work, we investigate the sub-surface induced microstructural effects and its correlation with the mechanical properties, with special emphasis in the fatigue behavior.
Blasting with zirconia particles increases the fatigue resistance whereas the opposite effect is observed using alumina ones.
As in a conventional shot penning process, the use of rounded zirconia particles for blasting led to the development of residual compressive stresses at the surface layer, without zones of stress concentrators.
Alumina particles are harder and have an angular shape, which confers a higher capability to abrade the surface, but also a high rate of breaking down on impact.
The higher roughness and the presence of a high amount of embedded alumina particles make the blasted alloy prone to crack nucleation.
Interestingly, the beneficial or detrimental role of blasting is more intense for the Ti6Al4V alloy than for the 316 steel.
It is proposed that this behavior is related to their different strain hardening exponents and the higher mass fraction of particles contaminating the surface.
The low value of this exponent for the Ti6Al4V alloy justifies the expected low sub-surface hardening during the severe plastic deformation, enhancing its capability to soft during cyclic loading.
The use of joints fabricated from dissimilar titanium alloys allows the design of structures with local properties tailored to different service requirements.
To develop welded structures for aerospace applications, particularly under critical loading, an understanding of the fatigue behavior is crucial, but remains limited, especially for solid-state technologies such as linear friction welding (LFW).
This paper presents the fatigue behavior of dissimilar titanium alloys, Ti-6Al-4V (Ti64) and Ti-6Al-2Sn-4Zr-2Mo-0.1Si (Ti6242), joined by LFW with the aim of characterizing the stress versus number of cycles to failure (S-N) curves in both the low- and high-cycle fatigue regimes.
Prior to fatigue testing, metallurgical characterization of the dissimilar alloy welds indicated softening in the heat-affected zone due to the retention of metastable β, and the typical practice of stress relief annealing (SRA) for alleviating the residual stresses was effective also in transforming the metastable β to equilibrated levels of α + β phases and recovering the hardness.
Thus, the dissimilar alloy joints were fatigue-tested in the SRA (750 °C for 2 h) condition and their low- and high-cycle fatigue behaviors were compared to those of the Ti64 and Ti6242 base metals (BMs).
The low-cycle fatigue (LCF) behavior of the dissimilar Ti6242-Ti64 linear friction welds was characterized by relatively high maximum stress values (~ 900 to 1100 MPa) and, in the high-cycle fatigue (HCF) regime, the fatigue limit of 450 MPa at 10
Orthotropic steel decks (OSDs) are commonly used in the construction of bridges due to their load-bearing capabilities.
However, they are prone to fatigue damage over time due to the cyclic loads from vehicles.
Therefore, the early structural health monitoring of fatigue damage in OSDs is crucial for ensuring bridge safety.
Moreover, Lamb waves, as elastic waves propagating in OSD plate-like structures, are characterized by their long propagation distances and minimal attenuation.
This paper introduces a method of emitting high-energy ultrasonic waves onto the OSD surface to capture the nonlinear Lamb waves formed, thereby calculating the nonlinear parameters.
These parameters are then correlated with the fatigue damage endured, forming a damage index (DI) for monitoring the fatigue life of OSDs.
Experimental results indicate that as fatigue damage increases, the nonlinear parameters exhibit a significant initial increase followed by a decrease.
The behavior is distinct from the characteristic parameters of linear ultrasound (velocity and energy), which also exhibit changes but to a relatively smaller extent.
The proposed DI and fatigue life based on nonlinear parameters can be fitted with a Gaussian curve, with the R-squared value of the fitting curve being close to 1.
Additionally, this paper discusses the influence of rib welds within the OSDs on the DI, whereby as fatigue damage increases, it enlarges the value of the nonlinear parameters without altering their trend.
The proposed method provides a more effective approach for monitoring early fatigue damage in OSDs.
3D printing is an emerging and disruptive technology, supporting the field of medicine over the past decades.
In the recent years, the use of additive manufacturing (AM) has had a strong impact on everyday dental applications.
Despite remarkable previous results from interdisciplinary research teams, there is no evidence or recommendation about the proper fabrication of handheld medical devices using desktop 3D printers.
The aim of this study was to critically examine and compare the mechanical behavior of materials printed with FFF (fused filament fabrication) and CFR (continuous fiber reinforcement) additive manufacturing technologies, and to create and evaluate a massive and practically usable right upper molar forceps.
Flexural and torsion fatigue tests, as well as Shore D measurements, were performed.
The tensile strength was also measured in the case of the composite material. The flexural tests revealed the measured force values to have a linear correlation with the bending between the 10 mm (17.06 N at 5000th cycle) and 30 mm (37.99 N at 5000th cycle) deflection range.
The findings were supported by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images.
Based on the results of the mechanical and structural tests, a dental forceps was designed, 3D printed using CFR technology, and validated by five dentists using a Likert scale.
In addition, the vertical force of extraction was measured using a unique molar tooth model, where the reference test was carried out using a standard metal right upper molar forceps.
Surprisingly, the tests revealed there to be no significant differences between the standard (84.80 N ± 16.96 N) and 3D-printed devices (70.30 N ± 4.41 N) in terms of extraction force in the tested range.
The results also highlighted that desktop CFR technology is potentially suitable for the production of handheld medical devices that have to withstand high forces and perform load-bearing functions.
Clinical studies show a high failure incidence after years of service of endodontically treated premolars, when restored with post-core crowns, especially those with short posts or deficient ferrules.
The reason for this can be a deterioration of the luting cement around the post by fatigue from functional loading.
In particular, the anatomy of premolars may frequently be incompatible with the application of long endodontic posts.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of fatigue loading on the quality of the cement layer between posts with restricted lengths and the root canal wall in premolars.
As the stiffness of posts may affect the outcome, post-and-core systems with varying post stiffness were selected.
Four types of post-and-core systems were selected for this study: three prefabricated post systems combined with a resin composite core material and one cast post and core.
The three prefabricated posts were titanium posts (Tenax), quartz-fiber posts (Aestheti-Post), and quartz-coated-carbon-fiber posts (Aestheti-Plus).
The post-and-core restorations were made on single-rooted, human, maxillary premolars from which the coronal sections were removed at the level of the proximal cementoenamel junction.
Following endodontic treatment, a cast post and core (post length 6 mm) was prepared for each tooth individually (direct method) and cemented into the root canal with chemical cure Panavia 21 TC.
The prefabricated posts were directly cemented in the root canal and then, after applying a dual-cure adhesive (Clearfil Photobond), built up with a core build-up composite (Clearfil Photocore).
For each group (n = 8), half of the specimens were exposed to fatigue loading (10(6) load cycles) almost perpendicular to the axial axis (85 degrees), while the other half was used as the control.
Three parallel, transverse root sections of 1.5-mm thickness, were cut from each specimen.
These sections were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to evaluate the cement integrity, while the retention strength of the cemented post sections was determined with a push-out test.
Fatigue loading did not cause separation of the buildups from the roots or affect the push-out strength.
On a univariate level, only SEM evaluation showed significant differences between the types of post, fatigue loading, and between the levels of root sections.
The cement integrity with the titanium post was significantly less than with the other three systems, which did not differ among themselves.
The differences could not be explained by differences in stiffness between the posts.
A composite core build-up material bonded to the dentin and supported by quartz-fiber posts or quartz-coated-carbon-fiber posts, cemented with adhesive cement like Panavia 21 TC, may be a viable alternative for the conventional cast core.
Concerning the use of modern technologies and manufacturing systems in the production of high-stress components from Ni-base superalloys and the optimization of the production process, knowledge of the microstructure-mechanical properties relationship is very important.
The microstructure of Ni-base superalloys is very closely related to the chemical composition.
With the high number of alloying elements, various phases are presented in the structure of Ni-base superalloys, which have a predominantly positive effect on the mechanical properties, but also phases that reduce, in particular, the heat resistance of these materials.
The aim of the presented paper is the quantification of structural parameters of two types of cast alloys, ZhS6K and IN738, where the effect of dwell at 10 and 15 h at 800 °C on the change in morphology and volume fraction of the γ'-phase precipitate was studied.
The detected changes were verified by the Vickers hardness test.
The IN718 superalloy was chosen as a representative of the wrought superalloy.
This alloy was also annealed for 72 h at a temperature of 800 °C, and the quantification of structural parameters was performed by EDS mapping and TEM analysis.
Another partial goal was to assess the effect of changes in the volume fraction of the γ'-phase and δ-phase on the change in the high-cycle fatigue life of superalloy IN 718.
This superalloy was tested by dynamic cyclic loading with cycle asymmetry parameter R = -1 at an ambient temperature of 22 ± 5 °C and at a temperature of 700 ± 5 °C and with cycle asymmetry parameter R < 1 (three-point bending load) after annealing at 700 °C/72 h.
The results of the quantitative analyses and fatigue tests will be further used in optimizing the design of Ni-base superalloy components by modern technologies such as additive technologies for the production of turbine blades and implemented within the philosophy of Industry 4.0.
The original ceramic surface finish and its microstructure may have an effect on crack propagation.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between crack propagation and ceramic microstructure following cyclic fatigue loading, and to qualitatively evaluate and quantitatively measure the surface and subsurface crack depths of three types of ceramic restorations with different microstructures using a Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope (CLSM) and Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM).
Twenty (8 x 4 x 2 mm(3)) blocks of AllCeram (AC), experimental ceramic (EC, IPS e.max Press), and Sensation SL (SSL) were prepared, ten glazed and ten polished of each material. Sixty antagonist enamel specimens were made from the labial surfaces of permanent incisors.
The ceramic abraders were attached to a wear machine, so that each enamel specimen presented at 45 degrees to the vertical movement of the abraders, and immersed in artificial saliva.
Wear was induced for 80K cycles at 60 cycles/min with a load of 40 N and 2-mm horizontal deflection.
The specimens were examined for cracks at baseline, 5K, 10K, 20K, 40K, and 80K cycles.
Twenty- to 30-microm deep subsurface cracking appeared in SSL, with 8 to 10 microm in AC, and 7 microm close to the margin of the wear facets in glazed EC after 5K cycles.
The EC showed no cracks with increasing wear cycles.
Seventy-microm deep subsurface cracks were detected in SSL and 45 microm in AC after 80K cycles.
Statistically, there was significant difference among the three materials (p < 0.05).
Bonferroni multiple comparison of means test confirmed the ANOVA test and showed that there was no statistical difference (p > 0.05) in crack depth within the same ceramic material with different surface finishes.
The ceramic materials with different microstructures showed different patterns of subsurface cracking.
This paper presents a framework of experimental testing and crystal plasticity micromechanics for high cycle fatigue (HCF) of micro-scale L605 CoCr stent material. Micro-scale specimens, representative of stent struts, are manufactured via laser micro-machining and electro-polishing from biomedical grade CoCr alloy foil.
Crystal plasticity models of the micro-specimens are developed using a length scale-dependent, strain-gradient constitutive model and a phenomenological (power-law) constitutive model, calibrated from monotonic and cyclic plasticity test data.
Experimental microstructural characterisation of the grain morphology and precipitate distributions is used as input for the polycrystalline finite element (FE) morphologies.
Two microstructure-sensitive fatigue indicator parameters are applied, using local and non-local (grain-averaged) implementations, for the phenomenological and length scale-dependent models, respectively, to predict fatigue crack initiation (FCI) in the HCF experiments.
As a new type of high-performance material, gradient structural steel is widely used in engineering fields due to its unique microstructure and excellent mechanical properties.
For the prevalent fatigue failure problem, the rate of change in the local grain size gradients along the structure (referred to as the gradient rate) is a key parameter in the design of gradient structures, which significantly affects the fatigue performance of gradient structural steel.
In this study, a new method of 'Voronoi primary + secondary modeling' is adopted to successfully establish three typical high-strength steel models corresponding to the convex-, linear-, and concave-type gradient rates for gradient structures, focusing on the stress-strain response and crack propagation in structural steel with different gradient rates under cyclic loading.
It was found that the concave gradient rate structural model is dominated by finer grains with larger volume fraction, which is conducive to hindering fatigue crack propagation and has the longest fatigue life, which is 16.16% longer than that of the linear gradient rate structure and 23.66% longer than that of the convex gradient rate structure.
The simulation results in this study are consistent with the relevant experimental phenomena.
Therefore, when regulating the gradient rate, priority should be given to increasing the volume fraction of fine grains and designing a gradient rate structure dominated by fine grains to improve the fatigue life of the material. This study presents a new strategy for designing engineering materials with better service performance.
In this paper, the fatigue performance of the aluminide layer-coated and as-received MAR 247 nickel superalloy with three different initial microstructures (fine grain, coarse grain and column-structured grain) was monitored using nondestructive, eddy current methods.
The aluminide layers of 20 and 40 µm were obtained through the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process in the hydrogen protective atmosphere for 8 and 12 h at the temperature of 1040 °C and internal pressure of 150 mbar.
A microstructure of MAR 247 nickel superalloy and the coating were characterized using light optical microscopy (LOM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS).
It was found that fatigue performance was mainly driven by the initial microstructure of MAR 247 nickel superalloy and the thickness of the aluminide layer.
Furthermore, the elaborated methodology allowed in situ eddy current measurements that enabled us to localize the area with potential crack initiation and its propagation during 60,000 loading cycles.
The development of a laser cladding repair strategy is critical for the continued growth of heavy-haul railway networks.
Premium hypereutectoid rails have undergone laser cladding using a new martensitic stainless-steel alloy, 415SS, developed for high carbon rails after standard cladding metals were found to be incompatible.
Non-destructive neutron diffraction techniques were used to measure the residual stress in different layers generated across a dissimilar metal joint during laser cladding.
The internal stress distribution across the cladding, heat-affected zone (HAZ), and substrate was measured in the untempered rail, after 350 °C and 540 °C heat treatment procedures and two surface grinding operations.
The martensitic 415SS depositions produce compressive stress in the cladding, regardless of tempering procedures, which may inhibit fatigue crack propagation whilst grinding operations locally relive surface stress.
Balancing tensile stresses were recorded below the fusion boundary in the HAZ due to thermal gradients altering the microstructure.
The combination of 540 °C tempering and 0.5 mm surface layer removal produced a desirable combination of compression in the cladding deposition with significantly reduced tensile stresses in the HAZ.
A comparison with the current literature shows that this alloy achieves a unique combination of desirable hardness, low tensile stress, and compression in the cladding layer.
Data obtained during strain scanning has been used to determine the location of microstructural changes at the fusion boundary and HAZ through correlation of the stress, strain, full width at half maximum (FWHM), and intensity profiles.
Therefore, neutron diffraction can be used for both the accurate measurement of internal residual stress and to obtain microstructural information of a metallurgical join non-destructively.
Management of femur fractures requires titanium alloy implants that provide a good combination of static strength and ductility plus sufficient high cycle fatigue strength to resist repetitive loading.
A research program was initiated to determine whether aging treatments could increase the strength of alpha + beta Ti-15Mo while maintaining acceptable tensile ductility.
A pilot heat treating study indicated the best combination of strength and ductility was obtained using an α + β annealing temperature of 705°C ± 10°C followed by an aging treatment of 482°C ± 10°C.
EBSD data for four suppliers revealed that the alpha phase ratios ranged from 16.3% to 18.6% and the beta phase ratios ranged from 81.4% to 83.7%.
Mean beta grain size diameters ranged between 1.42 and 1.78 µm.
Tensile testing qualification data from four suppliers was statistically analyzed and reviewed.
Minimum reproducible tensile values were established and incorporated into ASTM F2066-13 implant material standard.
Cantilever fatigue testing was performed with proximal femoral nail implants that were fabricated into fully finished implant constructs.
Fatigue results for 125°, 130°, and 135° implant constructs met the acceptance criteria regarding the fatigue runout load limits and failure modes that were identified. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
J Biomed Mater Res Part B: Appl Biomater, 105B: 2010-2018, 2017.
Microstructural changes occurring during fatigue tests of austenitic-ferritic duplex stainless steel (DSS) in air and in hydrogen-generating environment have been investigated.
Hydrogen charging of steel samples during fatigue crack growth (FCG) tests was performed by cathodic polarization of specimens in 0.1M H(2)SO(4) aqueous solution.
Microstructural investigations of specimens after FCG tests were carried out using transmission electron microscopy to reveal the density and arrangement of dislocations formed near crack tip.
To determine the way of crack propagation in the microstructure, electron backscatter diffraction investigations were performed on fatigue-tested samples in both kinds of environment.
To reveal hydrogen-induced phase transformations the atomic force microscopy was used.
The above investigations allowed us to define the character of fatigue crack propagation and microstructural changes near the crack tip.
It was found that crack propagation after fatigue tests in air is accompanied with plastic deformation; a high density of dislocations is observed at large distance from the crack.
After fatigue tests performed during hydrogen charging the deformed zone containing high density of dislocations is narrow compared to that after fatigue tests in air.
It means that hydrogenation leads to brittle character of fatigue crack propagation.
In air, fatigue cracks propagate mostly transgranularly, whereas in hydrogen-generating environment the cracks have mixed transgranular/interfacial character.
Friction stir welding (FSW) has been adopted in the aerospace industry for fabricating structural alloys due to the low melting point and high thermal conductivity of aviation aluminum alloys.
However, welding residual stresses can lead to secondary deformation in friction stir welded (FSWed) structures.
Additionally, microstructural characteristics impact the crack growth rates and directions in these structures.
Therefore, it is necessary to investigate the effects of residual stress and microstructure on the fatigue responses of FSWed joints.
In this paper, we studied the fatigue crack growth behavior of two homogeneous and dissimilar FSWed joints with varying welding parameters, namely 2024-T3 and 7075-T6.
The residual stresses were measured with the X-ray diffraction method.
The dislocations and precipitates in different zones of the FSWed joints were analyzed via transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
The results demonstrated that the residual stress significantly affected the fatigue crack growth rate and direction; the tensile residual stress promoted fatigue crack growth and offset the decrease in the fatigue crack growth rate that occurred due to grain refinement.
The results of the microstructural analysis indicated that dislocation density and sliding resistance increased with the decrease in rotational speed and led to a decreased rate of fatigue crack propagation.
NiTi instruments have a high risk of separation due to torsional or flexural fatigue (cyclic fatigue).
Chemomechanical preparation, cleaning procedures, chemical disinfection and sterilization cause the corrosion of endodontic instruments that may weaken the fracture resistance of the instruments.
Objective To assess the effects of NaOCl immersion and autoclave sterilization on the cyclic fatigue resistance of ProFile, FlexMaster, Mtwo and TwistedFiles NiTi instruments (tip size 25, 0.06 taper, n=160).
Material and Methods The instruments (n=10 for each subgroup) were dynamically immersed in NaOCl; immersed in NaOCl and sterilized in one autoclave cycle; 5 cycles immersed in NaOCl and sterilized in autoclave and not immersed in NaOCl and not sterilized (control group).
Dynamic cyclic fatigue resistance was tested.
The number of cycles to failure (NCF) were statistically analyzed (P<0.05).
Results Kruskall-Wallis test indicated significant differences among the tested instruments in terms of NCF (P=0.000).
The mean NCF of Mtwo (556.75) was higher than that of the Twisted File, Flexmaster and ProFile, 483.1, 376.12, 365.25, respectively.
NaOCl immersion and autoclave sterilization have no effect on the NCF values of the tested instruments (P>.05).
Conclusions Cyclic fatigue resistance of the tested NiTi instruments cannot be adversely affected by NaOCl immersion and autoclave sterilization.
Production process (TwistedFiles) or design (Twisted Files, FlexMaster, Mtwo and ProFile) of the instruments can influence their cyclic fatigue resistance.
Traditional exercise fatigue monitoring technologies have faced challenges, including high costs, operational complexity, and invasiveness, which limit their practicality for daily training and health management.
A biobased pulp wool triboelectric nanogenerator (PW-TENG) has been developed and integrated with a heart rate strap (HRS) and inertial measurement unit (IMU) to establish a multimodal fatigue monitoring system.
Cold spray technique has been major improved in the last decades, for studying new properties for metals and alloys of aluminum, copper, nickel, and titanium, as well as steels, stainless steel and other types of alloys.
Cold sprayed Ni/CrC coatings have the potential to provide a barrier as well as improved protection to steels.
Fatigue characteristics of 52100 steel coated with Ni/Chrome-Carbide (Ni/CrC) powder mixture by using cold gas dynamic spray are investigated.
Fatigue samples were subjected to symmetrically alternating, axially applied cyclic fatigue loading until failure.
The test was stopped if a sample survived more than 5 × 10
The metastability of the polar phase in HfO
The plating/stripping of Li dendrites can fracture the static solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) and cause significant dynamic volume variations in the Li anode, which give rise to poor cyclability and severe safety hazards.
Herein, a tough polymer with a slide-ring structure was designed as a self-adaptive interfacial layer for Li anodes.
The slide-ring polymer with a dynamically crosslinked network moves freely while maintaining its toughness and fracture resistance, which allows it can to dissipate the tension induced by Li dendrites on the interphase layer.
Moreover, the slide-ring polymer is highly stretchable, elastic, and displays an ultrafast self-healing ability, which allows even pulverized Li to remain coalesced without disintegrating upon consecutive cycling.
The Li anodes demonstrate greatly improved suppression of Li dendrite formation, as evidenced by the high critical current density (6 mA cm
In view of the growing demand for sustainable and lightweight concrete structures, the use of ultra-high-performance concrete (UHPC) is becoming increasingly important.
However, fatigue loads occur more frequently in nature than static loads.
Despite the impressive mechanical properties of UHPC, a reduced tolerance for cyclic loading is known.
For this reason, our paper deals with experimental and numerical investigations regarding the main causes for crack initiation on the meso, micro, and nanoscale.
After mechanical fatigue tests, we use both scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to characterize microstructural changes.
A new rheological model was developed to apply those changes to the mesoscopic scale.
The origins of fatigue damaging can be traced back to a transformation of nanoscale ettringite, resulting in a densification of the surrounding binder matrix.
Additionally, a higher content of unhydrated cement clinker in the matrix benefits fatigue resistance.
On the mesoscale, stress peaks around aggregate grains expand into the surrounding binder with increasing load cycles and lead to higher degradation.
Laser shock peening (LSP), as an innovative surface treatment technology, can effectively improve fatigue life, surface hardness, corrosion resistance, and residual compressive stress.
Compared with laser shock peening, warm laser shock peening (WLSP) is a newer surface treatment technology used to improve materials' surface performances, which takes advantage of thermal mechanical effects on stress strengthening and microstructure strengthening, resulting in a more stable distribution of residual compressive stress under the heating and cyclic loading process.
In this paper, the microstructure of the GH4169 nickel superalloy processed by WLSP technology with different laser parameters was investigated.
The proliferation and tangling of dislocations in GH4169 were observed, and the dislocation density increased after WLSP treatment.
The influences of different treatments by LSP and WLSP on the microhardness distribution of the surface and along the cross-sectional depth were investigated.
The microstructure evolution of the GH4169 alloy being shocked with WLSP was studied by TEM.
The effect of temperature on the stability of the high-temperature microstructure and properties of the GH4169 alloy shocked by WLSP was investigated.
To analyze the influence of titanium-base (straight [SSC]/angulated-screw-channel [ASC]) on failure-loads and bending-moments of two-piece ceramic and titanium-zirconium implants restored with monolithic-zirconia crowns after fatigue.
Thirty-two anterior monolithic-screw-retained zirconia crowns were divided into four groups (n = 8/group) according to the factors: (1) type of implant material: two-piece titanium-zirconium implant (Ti-Zr; control-group) versus two-piece ceramic implant (CI; test-group) and (2) type of titanium-base: SSC (0° angle) versus ASC (25°).
An intact implant was used for field emission gun-scanning electronic microscopy (FEG-SEM) characterization and Raman spectroscopy for phase analyses and residual stress quantification.
All samples were exposed to fatigue with thermodynamic loading (1.2-million-cycles, 49 N, 1.6 Hz, 5-55°C) at a 30° angle.
Surviving specimens were loaded until failure (SLF) and bending moments were recorded.
Failed samples were examined using light microscope and SEM.
Statistical analyses included ANOVA and Mann-Whitney U-test.
Raman-spectroscopy revealed the presence of residual compressive stresses.
FEG-SEM revealed a roughened surface between threads and polished surface at the cervical-collar of the ceramic implant.
All samples survived fatigue and were free of complications.
Mean bending-moments (±SD) were: Ti-Zr-0: 241 ± 45 N cm, Ti-Zr-25: 303 ± 86 N cm, CI-0: 326 ± 58 N cm, CI-25: 434 ± 71 N cm.
Titanium-base and implant-material had significant effects in favor of ASC titanium bases (p = .001) and ceramic-implants (p < .001).
Failure analysis after SLF revealed severe fractures in ceramic implants, whereas titanium implants were restricted to plastic deformation.
Ceramic and titanium implants exhibited high reliability after fatigue, with no failures.
From a mechanical perspective, titanium bases with ASC can be recommended for both ceramic and titanium implants and are safe for clinical application.
To evaluate the failure-load and survival-rate of screw-retained monolithic and bi-layered crowns bonded to titanium-bases before and after mouth-motion fatigue, 72 titanium-implants (SICvantage-max, SIC-invent-AG) were restored with three groups (
Nickel-base superalloys are primarily used as components in jet engines and land-based turbines.
While compositionally complex, they are microstructurally simple, consisting of small (50-1000 nm diameter), ordered, coherent Ni(3)(Al,Ti)-type L1(2) or Ni(3)Nb-type DO(22) precipitates (called γ(') and γ(''), respectively) embedded in an FCC substitutional solid solution consisting primarily of Ni and other elements which confer desired properties depending upon the application.
The grain size may vary from as small as 2 μm for powder metallurgy alloys used in discs to single crystals the actual size of the component for turbine blades.
The fatigue behaviour depends upon the microstructure, deformation mode, environment and cycle time.
In many cases, it can be controlled or modified through small changes in composition which may dramatically change the mechanism of damage accumulation and the fatigue life.
In this paper, the fundamental microstructural, compositional, environmental and deformation mode factors which affect fatigue behaviour are critically reviewed.
Connections are made across a range of studies to provide more insight.
Modern approaches are pointed out in which the wealth of available microstructural, deformation and damage information is used for computerized life prediction.
The paper ends with a discussion of the very important and highly practical subject of thermo-mechanical fatigue (TMF).
It is shown that physics-based modelling leads to significantly improved life prediction.
Suggestions are made for moving forward on the critical subject of TMF life prediction in notched components.
Elastomers offer attractive advantages over classical solid-state electrolytes in terms of ensuring stable interfacial contact and maintaining fatigue durability, but the low ionic conductivity obstructs their practical applications in long-life lithium metal batteries.
In this work, rubber-derived lithium-conducting elastomer has been developed via sulfur vulcanization of nitrile butadiene rubber with a polymerizable ionic liquid to provide both high resilience and dramatically improved ionic conductivity.
Owing to the chemically crosslinked network between rubber chains and ionic liquid fragments generated during vulcanization, the elastic lithium-conductor achieves high resilience of 0.92 MJ m
The use of ceramic-on-ceramic (alumina- and zirconia-based) couplings in hip joint prostheses has been reported to produce lower wear rates than other combinations (i.e., metal-on-polyethylene and ceramic-on-polyethylene).
The addition of zirconia into an alumina matrix (zirconia-toughened alumina, ZTA) has been reported to result in an enhancement of flexural strength, fracture toughness, and fatigue resistance.
The development of new processing routes in nonaqueous media has allowed to obtain high-density ZTA nanocomposites with a very homogeneous microstructure and a significantly smaller and narrower particle-size distribution of zirconia than conventional powder mixing methods.
The aim of the present study was to set up and validate a new ZTA nanocomposite by testing its biocompatibility and wear behavior in a hip-joint simulator in comparison with commercial alumina and experimental alumina specimens.
The primary osteoblast proliferation onto ZTA nanocomposite samples was found to be not significantly different from that onto commercial alumina samples.
After 7 million cycles, no significant differences were observed between the wear behaviors of the three sets of cups.
In this light, it can be affirmed that ZTA nanocomposite materials can offer the option of improving the lifetime and reliability of ceramic joint prostheses.
The behavior and the mechanism of fatigue crack propagation in CrCoNi medium-entropy alloys (MEAs) with heterogeneous microstructures were investigated in this paper.
After cold-rolling and recrystallization annealing at different temperatures and times, five sets of heterostructured specimens were acquired with different recrystallization levels.
Then, the structure characterizations of these five sets of specimens were carried out by nanoindentation testing and electron back-scatter diffraction (EBSD) mapping.
Finally, the fatigue crack propagation tests were conducted on single edge crack specimens of these different heterogeneous microstructures.
The experimental results indicate that the crack propagation rates of specimens with partial recrystallization microstructures are higher than those with complete recrystallization microstructures, and the effect on fatigue crack thresholds of these specimens is the opposite.
The fatigue cracks grow along the slip planes or twin boundaries in recrystallization grains (RGs), which induced crack deflections and the roughness-induced crack closure effect.
For this reason, the area percentage of recrystallization and the grain size of RGs have a great effect on the value of the fatigue crack growth threshold.
Reliability is a key-but-challenging requirement of active implantable medical devices.
Implanted medical devices, such as leads, are exposed to tough environments in terms of corrosion and movement.
Alongside good reliability, there is also a need for the size of medical implants to be reduced, both to minimize trauma and to enable sites that have hitherto been inaccessible to be reached, such as the tortuous venous collateral network of the left ventricle.
Finally, specific electrical properties are required to adequately stimulate or sense specific regions within the human body.
In this work, we present a composite microcable that combines small size with high electrical performance and long-term lead robustness.
Combining multiple individually insulated electrical conductors in a microcable structure is perfectly suited for leads with multiple selectively contacted electrodes.
The use of fine wires of 19 μm diameter enables the manufacture of a 7 × 7 microcable with an extremely small total diameter of less than 0.3 mm. In addition, the fine wires are composed of a core-shell metal-to-metal composite, which allows multiple advantages in one microcable: good X-ray visibility, high electrical conductivity, and very high fatigue resistance.
The new MP35N®-Pt composite wire exhibits very strong lead robustness with good electrical conductivity.
The fatigue test results presented were obtained by applying 90° bending under tensile load and show that the microcable has a 35-fold increase in high cycle fatigue robustness compared to standard PtIr20 leads.
The resulting fracture surfaces were analyzed with scanning electron microscopy.
Complementary results from conductivity measurements, X-ray visibility tests and mechanical testing have also been presented to illustrate the benefits of this newly developed composite microcable compared to state-of-the-art electrical conductors for medical implant applications.
With excellent creep resistance, high-temperature thermal strength and high-temperature fatigue strength, Inconel 625 is widely applied to fabricate structural components in the aerospace field, where fatigue life is a key point.
Laser shock peening (LSP) is considered to improve the fatigue strength and fatigue crack growth resistance of metal materials.
The present work was conducted to investigate the influence of LSP on strain-controlled fatigue behavior of Inconel 625.
The surface microstructures of specimens before and after LSP were observed by transmission electron microscope (TEM).
The strain-controlled fatigue loading tests with different strain amplitudes ranging from 0.4% to 1.2% were carried out on the specimens, and the topography of fracture appearance was examined by scanning electron microscope (SEM).
The investigations showed that the specimens with LSP presented fewer crack initiations, shorter fatigue striations space and smaller dimples or micropores, which account for the enhancement of the fatigue life for the LSP specimens.
Furthermore, the plastic deformation, ultra-fine grains, twins and dislocations caused by LSP could prevent crack initiation, crack propagation and ultimate fracture, hence prolonging the fatigue life of the Inconel 625.
In addition, it was revealed that the cyclic strain hardening as well as cyclic strain softening remains almost the same to Inconel 625 with or without LSP.
Despite being a weaker metal, zinc has become an increasingly popular candidate for biodegradable implant applications due to its suitable corrosion rate and biocompatibility.
Previous studies have experimented with various alloy elements to improve the overall mechanical performance of pure Zn without compromising the corrosion performance and biocompatibility; however, the thermal stability of biodegradable Zn alloys has not been widely studied.
In this study, TiC nanoparticles were introduced for the first time to a Zn-Al-Cu system.
After hot rolling, TiC nanoparticles were uniformly distributed in the Zn matrix and effectively enabled phase control during solidification.
The Zn-Cu phase, which was elongated and sharp in the reference alloy, became globular in the nanocomposite.
The strength of the alloy, after introducing TiC nanoparticles, increased by 31% from 259.7 to 340.3 MPa, while its ductility remained high at 49.2% elongation to failure.
Fatigue performance also improved greatly by adding TiC nanoparticles, increasing the fatigue limit by 47.6% from 44.7 to 66 MPa. Furthermore, TiC nanoparticles displayed excellent phase control capability during body-temperature aging.
Without TiC restriction, Zn-Cu phases evolved into dendritic morphologies, and the Al-rich eutectic grew thicker at grain boundaries.
However, both Zn-Cu and Al-rich eutectic phases remained relatively unchanged in shape and size in the nanocomposite.
A combination of exceptional tensile properties, improved fatigue performance, better long-term stability with a suitable corrosion rate, and excellent biocompatibility makes this new Zn-Al-Cu-TiC material a promising candidate for biodegradable stents and other biodegradable applications.
Stress dependent electrochemical dissolution is identified as one of the key mechanisms governing surface degradation in fretting and crevice corrosion of biomedical implants.
The present study focuses on delineating the roles of mechanical stress and chemical conditions on the life expectancy of modular hip implants.
First, material removal on a stressed surface of Ti6Al4V subjected to single asperity contact is investigated experimentally to identify the influence of contact load, in-plane stress and chemical environment on mean wear rates.
A range of known stress levels are applied to the specimen while its surface is mechanically stimulated in different non-reactive to oxidizing aqueous environments.
Evolution of surface degradation is monitored, and its mechanism is elucidated.
This phase allows estimation of Preston Constant which is later used in the analysis.
Second phase of the work is semi-analytical and computational, where, based on the estimated Preston constant and other material and process parameters, the scratch propensity (consisting of magnitude of scratch depth and their frequency per unit area) due to micro-motion in modular hip implants is estimated.
The third phase views these scratches as initial notches and utilizes a mixed-mode fatigue crack propagation model to estimate the critical crack length for onset of instability.
The number of loading cycles needed to reach this critical crack length is then labeled as the expected life of the implant under given mechanical and chemical conditions.
Implications of different material and process conditions to life expectancy of orthopedic implants are discussed.
It is observed that transverse micro-motion, compared to longitudinal micro-motion, plays a far more critical role in determining the implant life.
Patient body weight, as well as proximity of the joint fluid to its iso-electric point play key roles in determining wear rates and associated life expectancies of modular hip implants.
Sustained aeration of joint fluid, as well as proper tolerancing of mating surfaces, along with a proper choice of material microstructure may be utilized to extend implant life.
Increased cyclic loading of components and materials in future thermal energy conversion systems necessitates novel materials of increased fatigue resistance.
The widely used 9-12% Cr steels were developed for high creep strength and thus base load application at temperatures below 620 °C.
At higher temperature, these materials present unstable grain structure, prone to polygonization under thermomechanical fatigue loading and limited resistance to steam oxidation.
This seminal study compares thermomechanical fatigue resistance and long crack propagation of the advanced ferritic-martensitic steel grade 92 and Crofer
A novel measurement approach is used to reveal the cumulative deformation field at a sub-grain level and to study the influence of microstructure on the growth of microstructurally small fatigue cracks.
The proposed strain field analysis methodology is based on the use of a unique pattering technique with a characteristic speckle size of approximately 10 µm.
The developed methodology is applied to study the small fatigue crack behavior in body centered cubic (bcc) Fe-Cr ferritic stainless steel with a relatively large grain size allowing a high spatial measurement accuracy at the sub-grain level.
This methodology allows the measurement of small fatigue crack growth retardation events and associated intermittent shear strain localization zones ahead of the crack tip.
In addition, this can be correlated with the grain orientation and size.
Thus, the developed methodology can provide a deeper fundamental understanding of the small fatigue crack growth behavior, required for the development of robust theoretical models for the small fatigue crack propagation in polycrystalline materials.
This study investigated the fatigue failure load of simplified monolithic yttria partially stabilized zirconia polycrystal restorations cemented to a dentin-like substrate using different luting systems.
Disc-shaped ceramic (Zenostar T, 10 mm Ø × 0.7 mm thick) and dentin-like substrate (10 mm Ø × 2.8 mm thick) were produced and randomly allocated into eight groups, without or with thermocycling (TC=5-55°C/12,000×): "cement" (RelyX Luting 2 - glass ionomer cement [Ion], [Ion/TC]; RelyX U200 - self-adhesive resin cement [Self], [Self/TC]; Single Bond Universal+RelyX Ultimate - MDP-containing adhesive + resin cement [MDPAD + RC], [MDP-AD + RC/TC]; ED Primer II+Panavia F 2.0 - Primer + MDP-containing resin cement [PR + MDP-RC], [PR + MDP-RC/TC])).
Each luting system was used as recommended by the manufacturer.
Staircase methodology (20 Hz; 250,000 cycles) was applied for obtaining the fatigue failure loads.
Fractographic characteristics were also assessed.
At baseline, the Ion group presented the lowest fatigue load, although it was statistically similar to the Self group.
The resin-based cement systems presented the highest fatigue performance, with the Ion group being only statistically equal to the Self group.
Thermocycling influenced the groups differently.
After aging, the MDP-AD + RC presented the highest mean, followed by the PR + MDP-RC and Self groups, while the Ion group had the lowest mean.
Fractographic analysis depicted all failures as radial cracks starting at the zirconia intaglio surface.
The luting system with MDP-containing adhesive applied prior to the resin cement presented the highest fatigue failure load after aging, presenting the best predictability of stable performance.
Despite this, monolithic zirconia presents high load-bearing capability regardless of the luting agent.
This work investigates two austenitic stainless steels, Sanicro 25 which is a candidate for high temperature heavy section components of future power plants and Esshete 1250 which is used as a reference material. The alloys were subjected to out-of-phase (OP) thermomechanical fatigue (TMF) testing under strain-control in the temperature range of 100 ∘C to 650 ∘C.
Both unaged and aged (650 ∘C, 3000 h) TMF specimens were tested to simulate service degradation resulting from long-term usage.
The scanning electron microscopy methods electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) and energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) were used to analyse and discuss active failure and deformation mechanisms.
The Sanicro 25 results show that the aged specimens suffered increased plastic straining and shorter TMF-life compared to the unaged specimens.
The difference in TMF-life of the two test conditions was attributed to an accelerated microstructural evolution that provided decreased the effectiveness for impeding dislocation motion.
Ageing did not affect the OP-TMF life of the reference material, Esshete 1250.
However, the structural stability and its resistance for cyclic deformation was greatly reduced due to coarsening and cracking of the strengthening niobium carbide precipitates.
Sanicro 25 showed the higher structural stability during OP-TMF testing compare with the reference material.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of mismatch between the elastic properties of substrate and restorative material on the fatigue resistance and stress distribution of multilayer structures.
The tested hypotheses were that (1) both an indirect composite resin (IR) and a polymer-infiltrated ceramic network (PICN) would show a higher survival rate after cyclic loading when cemented to a substrate with a high elastic modulus (E); and (2) PICN structures would have higher survival rates than IR structures regardless of the supporting substrate.
Blocks of PICN and IR were cut to obtain 1.0-mm-thick sections, which were cemented to substrates with different E values: c, core resin cement (low E); r, composite resin (intermediate E); and m, metal (nickel-chromium alloy; high E).
The resulting 6 groups of specimens (n = 20 per group) were subjected to a cyclic fatigue test (106 cycles).
Stress distribution was verified using finite element analysis, and the risk of failure was estimated.
Fatigue data were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier and Holm-Šidák tests.
To evaluate two-body wear of three zirconia ceramics stabilized with 3, 4 and 5mol% yttria and to compare their wear behavior with that of a lithium-disilicate glass-ceramic.
Sixteen rectangular-shaped specimens made from three grades of zirconia ceramics and a lithium-disilicate glass-ceramic were polished and dynamically loaded in a chewing simulator (2kg vertical load, 2.1Hz) under water at 90°C for 1.2×10 Independent of fracture toughness, strength and aging-susceptibility, the three zirconia ceramics showed a similar and limited amount of wear (∼10μm in depth) and were more wear-resistant than the lithium-disilicate glass-ceramic (∼880μm in depth).
Abrasive wear without obvious cracks was observed for all investigated zirconias, whereas the glass-ceramic with a lower fatigue threshold and high susceptibility to surface dissolution exhibited significant abrasion, fatigue and corrosion wear.
All three zirconia ceramics yielded a lower antagonist wear than the glass-ceramic and no significant differences were found between the zirconia ceramics.
In the context of this study, high-translucent zirconia ceramics stabilized with a higher yttria content, recently introduced in the dental field, were as wear-resistant and antagonist-friendly as conventional high-strength zirconia and suitable for monolithic restorations.
To investigate the effects of internally connected engaging component position in screw-retained fixed cantilevered prostheses.
Twenty-one three-unit fixed dental prostheses (FDPs) were cast in high-palladium alloy in three groups.
In group A, engaging components were incorporated into the units away from the cantilevered segment; proximal units received nonengaging components.
In group B, these positions were reversed.
Control specimens were fabricated using all nonengaging components.
Specimens were attached to internally connected 3.5 (diameter) × 13 mm (length) implants, torqued to 32 Ncm, and embedded into epoxy resin.
Specimens were tested in cyclic fatigue with a 2 Hz sine wave and 0.1 min/max load ratio.
Load amplitude started at 1.8 N and increased by 1.8 N every 60 cycles until fracture.
Log-rank statistic, ANOVA, Spearman's correlation, and LIFETEST procedures were used to evaluate level of statistical significance within the results.
In the control group, the mean number of cycles to fracture was 31,205 ± 2639.
Mean axial force at fracture was 932 ± 78 N.
In group A, these numbers were 38,160 ± 4292 and 1138 ± 128 N, and in group B, 31,810 ± 3408 and 949 ± 101 N.
Statistical significance levels for number of cycles to fracture were: Control versus group A, p = 0.0117, and groups A versus B, p = 0.0156 (statistically significant).
Control versus group B, p = 0.357 (not statistically significant).
Log-rank statistic for the survival curves is greater than would be expected by chance; there was a statistically significant difference between survival curves (p = 0.012).
The location and mode of failure were noteworthy (always in the abutment screw).
The position of the engaging component had significant effects on the results.
Within the limitations of this investigation, it can be concluded that using an engaging abutment in a screw-retained fixed cantilevered FDP provides a mechanical advantage, and engaging the implant furthest from the cantilever when designing a screw-retained cantilever FDP increased resistance to fracture of the distal abutment screw.
Traditional ACSR overhead wires, which consist of a high-strength steel core and several layers of aluminium wires, are currently the most popular overhead line conductor (OHL) design globally.
Operating conditions, particularly operating under varying stresses from Karman vortices, lead to the fatigue cracking of wires of the outer layer, followed by wires of the inner layers.
Karman vortices are formed by the detachment of a laminar wind stream flowing around the conductor, which causes vibrations in the conductor called wind or aeolian oscillations.
Aluminium wires are manufactured using standard batch material drawing technology.
Although the fatigue strength of such wires is not standardised, there are various criteria for evaluating this characteristic, as well as established limits on the number of cycles needed to break the first wires of the outer layer.
Fatigue strength also strongly depends on the geometric structure of the wire and its operating conditions.
The article analyses the influence of the mechanical condition of aluminium wires used in ACSR cables on their fatigue strength.
We then present results from aluminium wire fatigue tests conducted on a specially constructed test rig.
In addition, fatigue cracks were interpreted using scanning microscopy.
Energy-harvesting utilizing piezoelectric materials has recently attracted extensive attention due to the strong demand of self-powered electronics.
Unfortunately, low power density and poor long-term stability seriously hinder the implementation of lead-free piezoelectrics as high-efficiency energy harvesters.
For the first time, we demonstrate that tailoring grain orientations of lead-free ceramics via templated grain growth can effectively produce ultrahigh power generation performance and excellent endurance against electrical/mechanical fatigues.
Significantly improved fatigue resistance was observed in (Ba
The dynamic loading in human body, along with the corrosive body fluid, presents a great challenge for the practical use of biodegradable magnesium implants.
In this study, a high purity magnesium (99.99wt.%) and two typical promising biodegradable magnesium alloys (binary Mg-1Ca and ternary Mg-2Zn-0.2Ca) were chosen as the experimental materials.
Their dynamic mechanical performances were comparatively evaluated by carrying out fatigue tests in air and in simulated body fluid (SBF).
The fatigue strengths of HP-Mg, Mg-1Ca and Mg-2Zn-0.2Ca were all around 90MPa in air, however, they decreased to 52MPa, 70MPa and 68MPa in SBF at 4×10(6)cycles, respectively.
The fatigue cracks initiated from the microstructural defects when tested in air, but nucleated from surface corrosion pits when tested in SBF.
Cyclic loading significantly increased the corrosion rates of all the experimental materials compared to that in static SBF.
Moreover, based on our findings, the fatigue failure processes and interactions between material, corrosion and cyclic loading were systematically discussed.
Fatigue strength and life are vital parameters to the design of metallic implant devices.
For the corrosion fatigue of biomedical magnesium alloys, we reported the corrosion fatigue behavior of AZ91D and WE43 in SBF (Acta Biomaterialia, 6 (2010) 4605-4613), and till now there is no other reports to our knowledge.
We spent 3years to finish the fatigue testing and get S-N curves for three more magnesium biomaterials, and our significant finding is that the fatigue strengths of HP-Mg, Mg-1Ca and Mg-2Zn-0.2Ca are all around 90MPa in air but 52MPa, 70MPa and 68MPa in SBF at 4×10(6)cycles, which will provide the first-hand data for the future magnesium implants design.
To assess the effect of yttria mol% concentration and material thickness on the biaxial fracture load (N) of zirconia with and without mastication simulation.
Disk-shaped specimens (N = 120) of 3 mol% yttria-partially stabilized zirconia, 3Y-PSZ (Katana High Translucent, Kuraray Noritake), 4 mol% yttria-partially stabilized zirconia, 4Y-PSZ (Katana Super Translucent Multi Layered) and 5 mol% Yttria-partially stabilized zirconia, 5Y-PSZ (Katana Ultra Translucent Multi Layered) were prepared to thicknesses of 0.7 and 1.2 mm. For each thickness, the biaxial fracture load (N) was measured with and without mastication simulation with 1.2 million cycles at a 110-N load and simultaneous thermal cycling at 5°C to 55°C.
The data were analyzed by three-way Analysis of Variance (α = 0.05) and Tukey-Kramer adjusted multiple comparison test.
Yttria mol% concentration and material thickness had a statistically significant effect on the mean biaxial fracture load (F = 388.16, p < 0.001 and F = 714.33, p < 0.001 respectively).
The mean biaxial fracture load ranged from the highest to the lowest; 3Y-PSZ, 4Y-PSZ, and 5Y-PSZ (p = 0.012).
The mean biaxial fracture load of the 1.2 mm thickness groups was significantly higher than 0.7 mm thickness at any given condition (p = 0.002).
Not all specimens survived the mastication simulation protocol.
Fifty percent of the 0.7-mm-thick 4Y-PSZ specimens, 70% of the 0.7-mm-thick 5Y-PSZ specimens and 20% of 1.2-mm-thick 5Y-PSZ specimens fractured during mastication simulation.
Mastication simulation had no statistically significant effect on the biaxial fracture load (F = 1.24, p = 0.239) of the survived specimens.
Lowering yttria mol% concentration and increasing material thickness significantly increases the fracture load of zirconia.
At 0.7 mm thickness, only 3Y-PSZ survived masticatory simulation.
A minimum material thickness of 1.2 mm is required for 4Y-PSZ or 5Y-PSZ.
The inherent rigidity of traditional printed circuit boards (PCBs) imposes significant limitations on device deformability, rendering them inadequate for the evolving demands of lightweight, flexible, and highly deformable electronic systems.
Although flexible printed circuits (FPCs) offer partial improvements, they continue to face critical challenges including limited mechanical flexibility, insufficient durability, and the absence of intrinsic self-healing capabilities.
Drawing inspiration from the adaptive deformation, exceptional flexibility, and autonomous self-healing properties observed in sea cucumbers, this study explores the incorporation of liquid metal (LM) into a flexible circuit design.
We propose an electroplating-assisted patterning technique to fabricate LM alloy thin films, addressing key limitations of LM such as high surface tension, poor substrate adhesion, low manufacturing efficiency, and high production costs.
Through interfacial energy manipulation, this technique effectively attenuates the intrinsic surface tension of the LM, thereby allowing for spatially selective wetting and strong interfacial bonding with deformable substrate materials.
The proposed approach achieves high-resolution patterning down to 40 μm and demonstrates excellent electrical stability, maintaining performance after 10,000 fatigue bending cycles at a curvature radius of 0.5 mm. This work presents a promising technological advancement that not only enhances the functional robustness of flexible electronics but also broadens their potential for practical and scalable applications.
As nickel-based alloys are more and more widely used in engineering fields for bearing cyclic loadings, it is necessary to study their very-high-cycle fatigue (VHCF) properties.
In this paper, the fatigue properties of nickel-based alloy 625 were investigated using an ultrasonic fatigue test apparatus.
The fracture microscopy shows that around the crack initiation site there are two characteristic zones, a rough area (RA) and a fine granular area (FGA).
Inclusions caused the interior fatigue crack initiation, and the coalescence of neighboring micro cracks was strongly influenced by the local microstructure, resulting in the RA morphology.
Subsequently, the contact and compressing of the crack surfaces contributed to the formation of the FGA.
Finally, the stress intensity factors of the RA and FGA were quantitatively evaluated for further discussion of the crack initiation and propagation processes.
Mechanical surface treatments have a long history in traditional engineering disciplines, such as the automotive or aerospace industries.
Today, they are widely applied to metal components to increase the mechanical performance of these.
However, their application in the medical field is rather rare.
The present study aims to compare the potential of relevant mechanical surface treatments on the high cycle fatigue (R = 0.1 for a maximum of 10 million cycles) performance of a Ti6Al4V standard alloy for orthopedic, spinal, dental and trauma surgical implants: shot peening, deep rolling, ultrasonic shot peening and laser shock peening.
Hour-glass shaped Ti6Al4V specimens were treated and analyzed with regard to the material's microstructure, microhardness, residual stress depth profiles and the mechanical behavior during fatigue testing.
All treatments introduced substantial compressive residual stresses and exhibited considerable potential for increasing fatigue performance from 10% to 17.2% after laser shock peening compared to non-treated samples.
It is assumed that final mechanical surface treatments may also increase fretting wear resistance in the modular connection of total hip and knee replacements.
The use of metal-backed tibial plates in total knee replacement prostheses can result in the flow of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) from the tibial insert into a cavity on the metal tray surface.
A study of the relationship between the thickness of UHMWPE inserts and the amount of cold extrusion is reported here.
An attempt was made to correlate the occurrence of cold extrusion with computer-aided analysis.
UHMWPE samples of varying thickness, from 3 mm to 10 mm, were placed over cobalt-chrome (Co-Cr) discs.
The Co-Cr discs had a 5 mm diameter hole placed centrally to simulate a tibial tray cavity.
A cyclic load was applied at 20 Hz through a Co-Cr spherical indentor for a million cycles.
The application of cyclic loading on UHMWPE samples resulted in cold-extrusion values comparable to those reported for retrieval analysis studies.
Results after fatigue loading show that the samples do not suffer any gross surface damage.
A shiny depression was visible at the load application site and the surface roughness value was decreased.
The amount of cold extrusion increased with decreasing UHMWPE sample thickness.
From the results, a minimum UHMWPE thickness of 12 mm is required if cold extrusion of UHMWPE is to be eliminated.
Cantilevered complete arch implant-supported prostheses are commonly fabricated from zirconia and more recently from strength gradient zirconia.
Different polymer-based materials indicated for definitive fixed prostheses that could be used with additive or subtractive manufacturing have also been marketed recently.
However, knowledge on the long-term fatigue behavior of cantilevered implant-supported prostheses made from these polymer-based materials and strength gradient zirconia is lacking.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the fatigue behavior of implant-supported cantilevered prostheses of recently introduced computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing polymers and zirconia.
A master standard tessellation language file of a 9×11×20-mm specimen with a titanium base (Ti-base) space that represented an implant-supported cantilevered prosthesis was used to fabricate specimens from additively manufactured interim resin (AM), polymethyl methacrylate (SM-PM), nanographene-reinforced polymethyl methacrylate (SM-GR), high-impact polymer composite resin (SM-CR), and strength gradient zirconia (SM-ZR) (n=10).
Each specimen was prepared by following the respective manufacturer's recommendations, and Ti-base abutments were cemented with an autopolymerizing luting composite resin.
After cementation, the specimens were mounted in a mastication simulator and subjected to 1.2 million loading cycles under 100 N at 1.5 Hz; surviving specimens were subjected to another 1.2 million loading cycles under 200 N at 1.5 Hz.
The load was applied to the cantilever extension, 12-mm from the clamp of the mastication simulator.
The Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox proportional hazards model were used to evaluate the data (α=.05).
Significant differences in survival rate and hazard ratio were observed among materials (P<.001).
Among tested materials, SM-ZR had the highest and AM had the lowest survival rate (P≤.031).
All materials had a significantly higher hazard ratio than SM-ZR (P≤.011) in the increasing order of SM-GR, SM-PM, SM-CR, and AM.
SM-ZR had the highest survival rate with no failed specimens.
Even though most of the tested polymer-based materials failed during cyclic loading, these failures were commonly observed during the second 1.2 million loading cycles with 200 N.
All materials had a higher hazard ratio than SM-ZR.
The purpose of this investigation was to study the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) behavior of a newly developed high-pressure die-cast (HPDC) Al-5.5Mg-2.5Si-0.6Mn-0.2Fe (AlMgSiMnFe) alloy.
The effect of heat-treatment in comparison with its as-cast counterpart was also identified.
The layered (α-Al + Mg
This paper provides the test results of the fatigue crack growth in notched specimens under tension.
The tests were performed on plane specimens with external blunt two-sided notches at room temperature.
The tested material was O-Ti
Transcatheter cardiovascular devices require high-purity Nitinol materials with exceptional fatigue resistance to meet stringent Class III regulatory durability requirements.
Ultra-clean VAR/EBR (Vacuum Arc Remelt/Electron Beam Remelt) Nitinol represents a metallurgical advancement that achieves unprecedented control over inclusion size and distribution.
This study characterizes the fatigue behavior of VAR/EBR Nitinol with nominal inclusion sizes below 10 μm under conditions representative of transcatheter mitral valve replacement (TMVR) applications, using the HighLife Mitral Valve Replacement system as a clinical case study.
Diamond-shaped fatigue specimens were manufactured from ultra-clean VAR/EBR Nitinol tubing used in the HighLife Mitral Valve Replacement system and tested under physiologically relevant conditions to 10
The surface of commercially pure Ti (cp-Ti) substrate was grit-blasted with Al(2)O(3) powders and then wet-blasted with HAp/Ti mixed powders at room temperature.
Then plasma spraying with Ti powders or HAp/Ti mixed powders on the blasted surface was carried out to form a bond coat layer, denoted as T50 and T100 bond coat for the former and HT100 bond coat for the later.
The HAp top coat was subsequently sprayed with 100 mum thickness.
The XRD patterns showed that the as-sprayed HT100 bond coat layer was mainly composed of HAp with minor components of Ti and TiO(2).
EDS analysis also showed there co-existed HAp and Ti without reaction in the HT100 bond coat layer.
Some cracks were observed in the bond coat and the top coat layers after compression-compression and tension-tension fatigue tests.
The HT100 bond coat specimen produced less AE signal and a small amount of debonding and cracking in compression-compression fatigue test.
The HT100 specimen could survive up to 10 million cycles at stress amplitude of 200 MPa, which is high enough compared to the maximum stress in bones: the order of 100 MPa. The degree of damage (debonding and cracking) in tension-tension fatigue test was more severe than that in compression-compression fatigue testing.
Retentive properties of cast metal clasps decrease over time because of metal fatigue.
Novel fiber-reinforced composite materials are purported to have increased fatigue resistance compared with metals and may offer a solution to the problem of metal fatigue.
The aim of this study was to investigate the fatigue resistance and stiffness of E-glass fiber-reinforced composite.
Twelve cylindrical fiber-reinforced composite test cylinders (2 mm in diameter and 60 mm in length) were made from light-polymerized urethane dimethacrylate monomer with unidirectional, single-stranded, polymer preimpregnated E-glass fiber reinforcement.
Six cylinders were stored in dry conditions and 6 in distilled water for 30 days before testing.
Fatigue resistance was measured by a constant-deflection fatigue test with 1 mm of deflection across a specimen span of 11 mm for a maximum of 150,000 loading cycles.
The resistance of the cylinder against deflection was measured (N) and the mean values of the force were compared by 1-way analysis of variance (alpha = .05).
The flexural modulus (GPa) was calculated for the dry and water-stored cylinders for the first loading cycle.
Scanning electron microscopy was used to assess the distribution of the fibers, and the volume percent of fibers and polymer were assessed by combustion analysis.
The test cylinders did not fracture due to fatigue following 150,000 loading cycles.
Flexural modulus at the first loading cycle was 18.9 (+/- 2.9) GPa and 17.5 (+/- 1.7) GPa for the dry and water-stored cylinders, respectively.
The mean force required to cause the first 1-mm deflection was 33.5 (+/- 5.2) N and 37.7 (+/- 3.6) N for the dry and water stored cylinders, respectively; however, the differences were not significant.
After 150,000 cycles the mean force to cause 1-mm deflection was significantly reduced to 23.4 (+/- 8.5) N and 13.1 (+/- 3.5) N, respectively (P < .0001).
Scanning electron microscopy highlighted fiber- and polymer-rich areas within the specimens and indicated that individual fibers were well impregnated with resin.
The combustion analysis studies identified the fiber content to be 35.9 vol%.
The results of this study suggest that the fatigue resistance of the fiber-reinforced material examined was increased; however, the reduction in flexural modulus of fiber-reinforced composites may restrict their use where high rigidity is required, such as in removable partial denture clasps.
Infrared thermography techniques have proven to be very effective for assessing the fatigue limits of metallic materials with obvious temperature variations.
But for some materials, it has been shown that the temperature variation is very limited, and the accuracy of infrared thermographic techniques is not verified.
In this study, the fatigue properties of a high-strength steel (SAE52100) were evaluated with traditional fatigue-loading techniques and infrared thermographic methods.
The traditional fatigue experiments were loaded at a frequency of 80 Hz with a stress ratio of
Sufficiently high fatigue strength is required for lattices made using electron beam powder bed fusion (EBPBF) for hip implants and understanding the anisotropic fatigue behaviour of EBPBF lattices is necessary for implant design.
In this work, the combined effects of loading direction (LD) and cell orientation of EBPBF-Ti6Al4V lattices on the fatigue strength of the structures under cyclic compressive loading have been studied.
Simple cubic (SC) ([001]//LD, [011]//LD and [111]//LD) lattices with a relative density of 0.36 were EBPBF made, tested and examined.
The fatigue strength of [001]//LD lattices has been determined to be ∼190 MPa at 5 × 10
Bridge cable wires suffer from alternating stress and environmental erosion, leading to premature failure prior to its design life.
This paper investigates the fatigue and mechanical behaviors of corroded bridge cable wires with a zinc-aluminum (Zn-Al) alloy coating.
Based on the salt spray corrosion test and microstructure analysis, the anti-corrosion resistance and corrosion appearance characteristics of the Zn-Al alloy coating and galvanized coating were investigated.
The Zn-Al alloy coating was superior in resistance to corrosion fatigue for the improvement in toughness and the generation of anti-corrosion Zn-Al and Fe-Zn-Al phases.
Equations of the accelerated corrosion depth of the steel wires had been regressed to roughly estimate the corrosion life of the Zn-Al alloy coating, which can reach 29.1 years with a thickness of 70 μm. The fatigue and mechanical properties of the bare wires after the salt spray test were further studied based on tensile tests and fatigue tests.
The fatigue properties of the bridge cable wire would decrease with the corrosion degree due to the deterioration and embrittlement of materials, where ductility characterized by the elongation rate was the most affected.
Fracture surfaces of the wires were captured and analyzed based on a method for recognizing graphical contours.
Insufficient fatigue life may occur in the steel wires after corrosion and increase with the degree of corrosion.
The pit depth logarithmically weakened the fatigue life of steel wires for the weakening of fatigue toughness and the bearing area.
The flat fracture was more common with a single fatigue source, while multiple fatigue sources led to step-like fractures for the generation of multiple dispersed crack propagation regions.
Corrosion fatigue was more sensitive to the existence of fatigue sources than the reduction.
Multiple initiation sources significantly reduced the fatigue life due to the cracking facilitation of the joint effect of multiple pits.
The electrochemical reactions of corrosion can lead to material embrittlement and a reducing effect on the fracture toughness of the steel wires.
The influence of gradients in hardness and elastic properties at interfaces of dissimilar materials in laminated metallic composites (LMCs) on fatigue crack propagation is investigated experimentally for three different LMC systems: Al/Al-LMCs with dissimilar yield stress and Al/Steel-LMCs as well as Al/Ti/Steel-LMCs with dissimilar yield stress and Young's modulus, respectively.
The damage tolerant fatigue behavior in Al/Al-LMCs with an alternating layer structure is enhanced significantly compared to constituent monolithic materials.
The prevalent toughening mechanisms at the interfaces are identified by microscopical methods and synchrotron X-ray computed tomography.
For the soft/hard transition, crack deflection mechanisms at the vicinity of the interface are observed, whereas crack bifurcation mechanisms can be seen for the hard/soft transition.
The crack propagation in Al/Steel-LMCs was studied conducting in-situ scanning electron microscope (SEM) experiments in the respective low cycle fatigue (LCF) and high cycle fatigue (HCF) regimes of the laminate.
The enhanced resistance against crack propagation in the LCF regime is attributed to the prevalent stress redistribution, crack deflection, and crack bridging mechanisms.
The fatigue properties of different Al/Ti/Steel-LMC systems show the potential of LMCs in terms of an appropriate selection of constituents in combination with an optimized architecture.
The results are also discussed under the aspect of tailored lightweight applications subjected to cyclic loading.
In this work, the high cycle fatigue behavior and tensile properties of Ti-Al-Mo-Cr-V-Nb-Zr-Sn titanium alloy at room temperature with a basketweave structure and bimodal structure were studied.
The results show that the fatigue strength of the basketweave structure is higher, while the balance of strength and plasticity of the bimodal microstructure is better.
However, the fatigue performance of the bimodal microstructure is unstable due to the bilinear phenomenon of the S-N curve.
By fractographic analysis and the study of the crystal orientation, as well as the slip traces of the primary α grains and β matrix at the facets, it was found that the facets are formed on the {101¯1}<112¯0> slip system with the highest Schmid factor, and the microcracks grow along the {110}<111> slip system in the β grain, but the driving force of microcrack propagation may exceed the restriction of crystallographic orientation.
Based on the conclusions above, the phenomenological models of the fatigue crack initiation mechanism of Ti-Al-Mo-Cr-V-Nb-Zr-Sn titanium alloy are established.
Laser shock peening (LSP) has been employed to improve the mechanical properties of repaired aerospace engine components via laser metal deposition (LMD).
This study looked at cross-sectional residual stress, microstructure and high cyclic fatigue performance.
The outcomes demonstrated that a compressive residual stress layer with a value of 240 MPa was formed at a depth of 200 μm in the laser melting deposited zone and the microhardness was improved by 13.1%.
The findings of electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis revealed that misorientation increased and dislocation features were observed after LSP which is beneficial to the enhancement of fatigue performance.
The high cycle fatigue data illustrated that the LMD+LSPned samples exhibited 61% improvement in comparison to the as-LMD samples.
In the aerospace sector, LSP and LMD are therefore very effective and promising techniques for restoring high-value components.
The effect of pre-rolling on the microstructure and fatigue crack (FC) propagation resistance of the Al-Cu-Li alloy was studied using tensile testing, fatigue testing, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffractometer (XRD), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
The results revealed that reducing the alloy thickness through pre-rolling by up to 12% enhanced both tensile strength and yield strength, albeit at the expense of reduced elongation.
In addition, the FC growth rate decreased by up to 9% pre-rolling, reaching the minimum, while the application of additional mechanical stress during the pre-rolling increases this parameter.
Deformations in the Al-Cu-Li alloy with less than a 9% thickness reduction were confined to the surface layer and did not extend to the central layer.
This non-uniform deformation induced a compressive stress gradient in the thickness direction and led to an inhomogeneous distribution of T
The detection of human motion and sweat composition are important for human health or sports training, so it is necessary to develop flexible sensors for monitoring exercise processes and sweat detection.
Mussel secretion of adhesion proteins enables self-healing of byssus and adhesion to surfaces.
We prepared Au nanoparticles@polydopamine (AuNPs@PDA) nanomaterials based on mussel-inspired chemistry and compounded them with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) hydrogels to obtain PVA/AuNPs@PDA self-healing nanocomposite hydrogels.
Dopamine (DA) was coated on the surface of AuNPs to obtain AuNPs based composite (AuNPs@PDA) and the AuNPs@PDA was implanted into the PVA hydrogels to obtain nanocomposite hydrogel through facile freeze-thaw cycle.
Glucose oxidase (GOD) was added to the hydrogel matrix to achieve specific detection of glucose in sweat. The obtained hydrogels exhibit high deformability (573.7 %), excellent mechanical strength (550.3 KPa) and self-healing properties (85.1 %).
The PVA/AuNPs@PDA hydrogel sensors exhibit quick response time (185.0 ms), wide strain sensing range (0-500 %), superior stability and anti-fatigue properties in motion detection.
The detection of glucose had wide concentration detection range (1.0 μmol/L-200.0 μmol/L), low detection limits (0.9 μmol/L) and high sensitivity (24.4 μA/mM).
This work proposes a reference method in dual detection of human exercise and sweat composition analysis.
The aim of this in vitro study was to evaluate the effect of accelerated artificial aging (AAA) and fatigue on the biaxial flexural strength (BFS) of three types of monolithic high-translucency zirconia restorations compared with conventional low-translucency zirconia restorations.
Four groups of 20 disc-shaped specimens (10 × 1.2 mm) were made from the following computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) zirconia blocks: Low-translucency zirconia (Ceramill ZI-LT) as a control, and three brands of high-translucent zirconia (Lava Plus, Ceramill Zolid White, and Copran Monolithic HT).
Ten discs from each group were subjected to the BFS test using the universal testing machine.
The other 10 discs from each group were subjected to AAA (thermocycling, 3,500 cycles) and fatigue (250,000 cycles) before the fracture test.
The definitive fracture load was recorded, and the BFS was calculated in accordance with International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 6872.
The data were analyzed with one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), Scheffe post hoc, and Mann-Whitney U test.
Data analyses were evaluated at a significance level of p < 0.05.
Significant differences were detected in the BFS among the four groups before AAA and fatigue.
The mean BFS was highest with Ceramill ZI (935.3 ± 47.1 MPa), and least in Ceramill Zolid White (685.7 ± 32.6 MPa).
After AAA and fatigue, significant differences were reported where the mean of BFS was highest with Copran Zr-i Monolithic HT (777.5 ± 21.2 MPa), and least in Ceramill Zolid White (576.0 ± 36.3 MPa).
Furthermore, Mann-Whitney U test showed that AAA and fatigue significantly affect the BFS of each material individually.
The AAA and fatigue significantly affected the BFS of the monolithic high-translucency zirconia restorations.
Although monolithic high-translucency zirconia had significantly lower BFS than conventional zirconia tested in this study, they still have sufficient strength for clinical use.
Selective laser melting (SLM) is a promising additive manufacturing (AM) process for high-strength or high-manufacturing-cost metals such as Ti-6Al-4V widely applied in aeronautical industry components with high material waste or complex geometry.
However, one of the main challenges of AM parts is the variability in fatigue properties.
In this study, standard cyclic fatigue and monotonic tensile testing specimens were fabricated by SLM and subsequently heat treated using the standard heat treatment (HT) or hot isostatic pressing (HIP) methods.
All the specimens were post-treated to relieve the residual stress and subsequently machined to the same surface finishing.
These specimens were tested in the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) regime.
The effects of post-process methods on the failure mechanisms were observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and optical microscopy (OM) characterization methods.
While the tensile test results showed that specimens with different post-process treatment methods have similar tensile strength, the LCF test revealed that no significant difference exists between HT and HIP specimens.
Based on the results, critical factors influencing the LCF properties are discussed.
Furthermore, a microstructure-based multistage fatigue model was employed to predict the LCF life.
The results show good agreement with the experiment.
Metal additive manufacturing technologies have great potential for future use in load-bearing aerospace applications, requiring a deeper understanding of mechanical performance and influencing factors.
The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of contour scan variation on surface quality, tensile and fatigue strength for laser powder bed fusion samples made of AlSi7Mg0.6 material and to create high-quality as-built surfaces.
The samples were produced with identical bulk and different contour scan parameters to accommodate the investigation of the impact of as-built surface texture on mechanical properties.
The bulk quality was evaluated by density measurements according to Archimedes' principle and tensile testing.
The surfaces were investigated using the optical fringe projection method, and surface quality was assessed by the areal surface texture parameters Sa (arithmetic mean height) and Sk (core height, derived from material ratio curve).
Fatigue life was tested at different load levels, and the endurance limit was estimated based on a logarithmic-linear relation between number of cycles and stress.
All samples were found to have a relative density of more than 99%.
Surface conditions distinctive in Sa and Sk were successfully created.
The resulting mean values of the ultimate tensile strength σult are between 375 and 405 MPa for 7 different surface conditions.
It was confirmed that the influence of contour scan variation on bulk quality is insignificant for the assessed samples.
Regarding fatigue, one as-built condition was found to perform as well as surface post-processed parts and better than the as-cast material (compared to literature values).
The fatigue strength at the endurance limit for 106 cycles is between 45 and 84 MPa for the three considered surface conditions.
To improve the contact fatigue life of gears, we studied the effect of adding a certain proportion of the Al element to a 20MnCr5 steel FZG spur gear under different heat treatment processes, characterizing the retained austenite and residual compressive stress on the tooth surface.
The stability of the microstructure grain size on the gear surface under different heat treatment processes was studied, and the surface microstructure, phase structure, and composition of the gear were characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD).
The changes in the retained austenite content and grain size on the gear surface at a microscale of 2-100 μm were investigated.
In addition, this study revealed the effect of adding the Al element and the optimization of the carburizing and quenching process on the residual compressive stress on the gear surface at a depth range of 200-280 μm. The effect of higher residual compressive stress and fewer non-metallic inclusions on the gear surface on the stress intensity factor of fatigue crack propagation was considered, along with the effect of deeper hardened layers on the improvement in wear resistance.
The experiments in this study significantly improved the contact fatigue life of 20MnCr5 steel gears.
The purpose of the present study is to compare the high-cycle fatigue behavior of newly developed Ti-7.5Mo alloy with that of c.p.
Ti, Ti-13Nb-13Zr and Ti-6Al-4V alloys in their as-cast state.
Experimental results indicate that Ti-6Al-4V and c.p.
Ti have higher stress-controlled fatigue resistance but lower strain-controlled fatigue resistance than Ti-7.5Mo and Ti-13Nb-13Zr.
Among four materials Ti-7.5Mo demonstrates the best strain-controlled fatigue performance.
The fracture surfaces of the present materials are comprised of three morphologically distinct zones: crack initiation zone, crack propagation zone, and the final-stage overload zone.
The fatigue cracks almost always initiate from casting-induced surface/subsurface pores.
A river pattern is observed in the propagation zone.
In the overload zone dimples are typically observed.
Three factors most significantly affecting the fatigue performance of the present materials are the presence of the casting-induced surface/subsurface pores; the location of the pores; and the inherent mechanical properties of the materials.
This study was conducted to determine the effect of zinc in amalgam on the static mechanical properties and resistance to fatigue-crack propagation of amalgams.
Fatigue, creep, compressive and flexure tests were performed on high-Cu Dispersalloy (Johnson and Johnson Dental Products Co., East Windsor, NJ, USA) and low-Cu Velvalloy (S.S.
White Dental Products Int., Philadelphia, PA, USA) in both Zn-containing and Zn-free formulations.
Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics principles were used to characterize the fatigue behavior (crack lengths were monitored).
The incorporation of Zn into these amalgams significantly improved their fatigue and creep resistance, while the effect of Zn on the static compressive and flexure strengths was not consistent.
Zn significantly increased (p < 0.05) the resistance to fatigue crack propagation during Stage II crack growth for both amalgams, and increased the variations in crack velocity for a given stress intensity difference, without visibly altering the path or nature of the fatigue cracks.
Possible influences on fatigue behavior were the mixed microstructure (particles and matrix), the nature of the crack tip, and creep.
The superior resistance to tensile fatigue crack propagation of amalgams containing small amounts of Zn (approximately 1 wt%) in vitro compared with amalgams with no Zn correlated with the superior resistance to marginal breakdown in vivo of Zn-containing amalgams.
The range of stress intensities over which stable cracks could propagate was small, while the large variations observed in fatigue crack growth rates for individual materials invalidate predicting a unique fatigue life from the empirical equations obtained.
Novel non-volatile memory devices are under intense investigation to revolutionize information processing for ultra-energy-efficient implementation of artificial intelligence and machine learning tasks.
Ferroelectric memory devices with ultra-low power and fast operation, non-volatile data retention and reliable switching to multiple polarization states promise one such option for memory and synaptic weight elements in neuromorphic hardware.
For quick adaptation by industry, complementary metal oxide semiconductor process compatibility is a key criterion that led to huge attention to hafnia-based FE materials.
Designing a high endurance hafnia-based FE is crucially important for online training applications in neuromorphic hardware.
In this work, we report on the physical origins of fatigue and recovery mechanisms in back-end-of-line compatible ferroelectric Hf
35%Co-20%Cr-35%Ni-10%Mo alloy (MP35N) with a low titanium (LT) content is commonly used as the material for the manufacture of leads in medical applications such as Cardiac Rhythmic Management (CRM), neurostimulation and Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS).
The material is drawn to thin wires, and this involves subjecting the material to extensive plastic deformation to obtain the desired mechanical and fatigue properties.
The critical part in the medical device design requires understanding the relationship between the processing method, microstructure and their impact on the cyclic performance.
In this study, the influence of drawing practices namely Full Die Drawing (FDD) and Half Die Drawing (HDD) on the cyclic performance of MP35NLT wires have been investigated, by differing the amount of plastic strain applied on the material. The as-drawn wires were subjected to rotary beam fatigue tests (R = -1) with varying stress amplitudes, and the microstructural factors controlling the Low Cycle Fatigue (LCF) and High Cycle Fatigue (HCF) performance were determined through post fatigued TEM investigations.
The results conclude that there is a significant impact on the drawing techniques on the fatigue performance of MP35NLT wires, with the FDD wires having a higher endurance limit than the HDD drawn wire until 75% CW, but there was a slight drop in the fatigue performance when the CW was increased to 95%.
This was attributed to the difference in grain sizes, dislocation structures, twin density, twin spacing, and grain boundary orientations observed between the two wires which contributed to contrasting cyclic behavior.
The drop-in fatigue performance of the FDD wire upon an increased strain to 95% has been attributed to the shear band formations in the material, which increased the stress localization in the material bestowing to drop-in fatigue performance.
Metallic intramedullary nails are the "gold standard" implant for repairing femur shaft fractures.
However, their rigidity may eliminate axial micromotion at the fracture (causing delayed healing) and they may carry too much load relative to the femur (causing "stress shielding").
Consequently, some researchers have proposed fiber-reinforced composite nails, but only one evaluated cyclic fatigue performance.
Therefore, this study assessed the cyclic fatigue response of a carbon fiber/epoxy nail with a novel ply stacking sequence of [0
Gaining a mechanistic understanding of the mechanical properties of mineralized tissues, such as dentin and cortical bone, is important from the perspective of developing a framework for predicting and preventing failure of teeth and whole bones, particularly with regard to understanding the effects of microstructural modifications from factors such as aging, disease, or medical treatments.
Accordingly, considerable research efforts have been made to determine the specific mechanisms involved in the fatigue and fracture of mineralized tissues, and to discover how these mechanisms relate to features within the respective microstructures.
This article seeks to review the progress that has been made specifically in the area of fatigue, focusing on the research that moves our understanding beyond simple fatigue life (S/N) concepts and instead addresses the separate mechanisms for microdamage initiation, crack propagation, and in the case of bone, repair and remodeling.
This study investigates the potential of the plate-shaped Zn-22 wt.% Al (Zn-22Al) alloy as an innovative energy dissipation material for seismic damping devices, since plate-shaped material is more suitable to fabricate large-scale devices for building structures.
The research begins with the synthesis of Zn-22Al alloy, given its unavailability in the commercial market.
Monotonic tensile tests and low-cycle fatigue tests are performed to analyze material properties and fatigue performance of plate-shaped specimens.
Monotonic tensile curves and cyclic stress-strain curves, along with SEM micrographs for microstructure and fracture surface analysis, are acquired.
The combined cyclic hardening material model is calibrated to facilitate finite element analysis.
Experimental results reveal exceptional ductility in Zn-22Al alloy, achieving a fracture strain of 200.37% (1.11 fracture strain).
Fatigue life ranges from 1126 to 189 cycles with increasing strain amplitude (±0.8% to ±2.5%), surpassing mild steel by at least 6 times.
The cyclic strain-life relationships align well with the Basquin-Coffin-Manson relationship.
The combined kinematic/isotropic hardening model in ABAQUS accurately predicts the hysteretic behavior of the material, showcasing the promising potential of Zn-22Al alloy for seismic damping applications.
The design of conductive hydrogels integrating anti-fatigue, high sensitivity, strong mechanical property and good sterilization performance remains a challenge.
We innovatively introduced metal coordination in covalently crosslinked Pluronic F-127 micelle network and synthesized nanocomposite conductive tough hydrogel through the combination of covalent crosslinking, metal coordination and silver nanowire reinforcement.
Compared with pure diacylated PF127 hydrogel (PF127), the tensile strength of PF-AA-AM-Al
Polyimide (PI) aerogels have attracted great attention owing to their low density and excellent thermal stability.
However, hydrophobic surface modification is required for PI aerogels to improve their ability in oil/water separation due to their amphiphilic characteristic.
Two-dimensional MXenes (transition metal carbides/nitrides) can be utilized as nanofillers to enhance the properties of polymers because of their unique layered structure and versatile interface chemistry.
Herein, the robust, lightweight, and hydrophobic PI/MXene three-dimensional architectures were fabricated via freeze-drying of polyamide acid/MXene suspensions and thermal imidization.
Polyamide acid was synthesized using
Polylactic acid (PLA) composite materials have been used for manufacturing surgical internal fixations owing to their satisfactory mechanical strength and absorbability.
This, in turn, reduces the pain and risks associated with the secondary operation on patients.
Although the mechanical properties of bioabsorbable materials have been considerably enhanced via modifications and optimization, the strength and stiffness of these materials are considerably inferior to those of metals.
Therefore, whether PLA fixation can satisfy the required mechanical properties has been a consistent subject of interest in clinical practice.
In this study, the mechanical properties of PLA bioabsorbable (Changchun SinoBiomaterials Co., Ltd., China) and titanium hollow screws (Shanghai Carefix Medical Instrument Co., Ltd., China) were compared in hallux valgus surgery with chevron osteotomy.
Three-dimensionally printed osteotomy guides were used for cutting the artificial first metatarsal model (SKU3422, Sawbones) to reduce the errors due to the variations in individual bone densities and osteotomy angles; the cut parts were subsequently fixed with the PLA and titanium alloy screws.
A digital image correlation system was used to obtain the full-field strain of the specimen to evaluate the mechanical behaviors under static and fatigue loads.
The experimental results demonstrated that, by designing a reasonable osteotomy angle, the compressive strength of the specimen with PLA screws under chevron osteotomy can be as high as that of the specimen with titanium screws.
Moreover, their stiffness can reach up to 60%-90% that of titanium screws.
After 240,000 cycles of compression, the PLA screws maintained their strength and stiffness.
These bioabsorbable fixtures can effectively prevent stress shielding under a suitable osteotomy.
Hence, as an optimal substitute for metal fixtures, an increase in clinical applications to surgery is anticipated, along with progressive in-depth research on the biomechanical properties of bioabsorbable materials.
The goals of this study were to investigate the fatigue limits of two Pd-Ag alloys (Ivoclar Vivadent) with differing mechanical properties and varying proportions of secondary alloying elements, examine the effect of casting porosity on fatigue behavior, and determine the effect of casting size on microstructures and Vickers hardness.
The alloys selected were: IPS d.SIGN 59 (59.2Pd-27.9Ag-8.2Sn-2.7In-1.3Zn); and IS 64 (59.9Pd-26.0Ag-7.0Sn-2.8Au-1.8 Ga-1.5In-1.0Pt).
Tension test bars, heat-treated to simulate dental porcelain application, were subjected to cyclic loading at 10 Hz, with R-ratio of -1 for amplitudes of compressive and tensile stress.
Two replicate specimens were tested at each stress amplitude.
Fracture surfaces were examined with a scanning electron microscope (SEM).
Sectioned fatigue specimens and additional cast specimens simulating copings for a maxillary central incisor restoration were also examined with the SEM, and Vickers hardness was measured using 1 kg load.
Casting porosity was evaluated in sectioned fatigue fracture specimens, using an image analysis program.
The fatigue limit (2 × 10(6) loading cycles) of IS 64 was approximately 0.20 of its 0.2% yield strength, while the fatigue limit of d.SIGN 59 was approximately 0.25 of its 0.2% yield strength.
These relatively low ratios of fatigue limit to 0.2% yield strength are similar to those found previously for high-palladium dental alloys, and are attributed to their complex microstructures and casting porosity.
Complex fatigue fracture surfaces with striations were observed for both alloys.
Substantial further decrease in the number of cycles for fatigue failure only occurred when the pore size and volume percentage became excessive.
While the heat-treated alloys had equiaxed grains with precipitates, the microstructural homogenization resulting from simulated porcelain firing differed considerably for the coping and fatigue test specimens; the latter specimens had significantly higher values of Vickers hardness.
E36 ship plate steel was, respectively, produced by as rolling and normalizing process (ARNP), and EH36 and FH36 ship plate steel was produced by the thermo-mechanical control process (TMCP) with low carbon and multi-element micro-alloying.
The microstructure of the three grades of ship plate steel was composed of ferrite, pearlite, and carbides at room temperature.
The average grain size on 1/4 width sections (i.e., longitudinal sections) of the three grades of ship plate steel was, respectively, 5.4 μm, 10.8 μm, and 11.9 μm. EH36 and FH36 ship plate steel had the higher strength due to precipitation and grain boundary strengthening effect, while the E36 ship plate steel had the lower strength due to the recovery phenomenon in the normalizing process.
EH36 and FH36 ship plate steel had higher impact toughness due to lower carbon (C) and silicon (Si) content and higher manganese (Mn) content than E36 ship plate steel.
E36 ship plate steel had the best plasticity due to the two strong {110} and {111} texture components.
Shape memory alloys are increasingly used in superelastic conditions under complex cyclic deformation situations.
In these applications, it is very difficult to predict the service life based on the theoretical law.
In the present work, fatigue properties of NiTi engine-driven rotary files have been characterized by using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and mechanical testing (bending).
The DSC technique was used to measure precise transformation.
The degree of deformation by bending was studied with combined DSC and mechanical property measurements.
In these cold-worked files, the high dislocation density influences the reorientation processes and the crack growth.
Some thermal treatments are involved in promoting some changes in the mechanical properties and transformation characteristics.
Annealing around 400 degrees C shows good results; the recovery allows a compromise between an adequate density for the R-Phase germination and a low density to limit the brittleness of these instruments.
In clinical usage, it is important to consider different canal shapes.
It could be proposed that only few cycles of use is safe for very curved canals but to follow the manufacturer's advise for straight canals.
Surface modification of steel has been reported to improve hardness and other mechanical properties, such as increase in resistance, for reducing plastic deformation, fatigue, and wear.
Duplex surface treatment, such as a combination of plasma nitriding and physical vapor deposition, achieves superior mechanical properties and resistance to wear.
In this study, the plasma nitriding process was conducted prior to the deposition of hard coatings on the SKH9 substrate.
This process was done by a proper mixture of nitrogen/hydrogen gas at suitable duty cycle, pressure, and voltage with proper temperature.
Later on, the deposition of gradient AlCrSiN coatings synthesized by a cathodic-arc deposition process was performed.
During the deposition of AlCrSiN, CrN, AlCrN/CrN, and AlCrSiN/AlCrN were deposited as gradient interlayers to improve adhesion between the coatings and nitrided steels.
A repetitive impact test (200k⁻400k times) was performed at room temperature and at high temperature (~500 °C) to assess impact resistance.
The results showed that the tribological impact resistance for the synthesized AlCrSiN increased because of a progressive hardness support.
The combination of plasma nitriding and AlCrSiN hard coatings is capable of increasing the life of molding dies and metal forging dies in mass production.
This laboratory study analyzed the influence of retention mode (screw- vs cement retained) and fatigue application on the failure load of monolithic lithium-disilicate (LDS) implant-supported single crowns (ISSC).
A total of 72 samples of monolithic LDS (*Ivoclar Vivadent) ISSC were divided into three groups (n = 24) according to their type of retention mode: Group Ti-CAD: Titanium base (SICvantage CAD/CAM Abutment red (SIC invent AG), screw-retained milled monolithic LDS (IPS e.max CAD*); Group Ti-P: Titanium base (SICvantage CAD/CAM Abutment red), screw-retained pressed monolithic LDS (IPS e.max Press*) and Group Ti-Cust: Titanium base with cemented press LDS (IPS e.max Press*) crown on a LDS (IPS e.max Press*) custom abutment.
A mandibular first molar implant-supported single crown model was investigated (Titanium implant: SICvantage-max, SIC invent AG, diameter: 4.2 mm, length: 11.5 mm).
Half of each group (n = 12) w​ere exposed to fatigue with cyclic mechanical loading (F = 198 N, 1.2 million cycles) and simultaneous thermocycling (5-55°C).
Single load to failure testing was performed, before (Subgroups Ti-CAD, Ti-P, and Ti-Cust) and after (Subgroups Ti-CAD-F, Ti-P-F, and Ti-Cust-F) fatigue.
Weibull distribution was used to determine the characteristic strength and Weibull modulus differences between groups.
Probability of survival at 900N load was calculated.
No samples failed during fatigue.
Characteristic strength values were as follow: Ti-CAD: 3259.5N, Ti-CAD-F: 2926N, Ti-P: 2763N, Ti-P-F: 2841N, Ti-Cust: 2789N, Ti-Cust-F: 2194N.
Whereas no difference was observed between pressed or milled monolithic crowns cemented to Ti-base, regardless of loading condition, fatigue decreased the characteristic strength of crowns cemented to custom abutments.
Probability of survival at 900 N was not significantly different between groups.
Screw-retained pressed or milled monolithic LDS ISSC, cemented directly to Ti-base abutments or LDS crowns cemented to custom ceramic abutments resist physiological chewing forces after simulated 5-year aging in the artificial mouth and presented equally high probability of survival. However, a significant decrease in load to failure was observed in LDS crowns cemented to custom ceramic abutments after fatigue.
Prospective clinical trials are needed to confirm the results of this laboratory investigation.
To investigate the resistance, retention, and prosthetic adaptability of an abutment prosthetic support interface (APSI) for single and splinted implant restorations.
Twenty-five 3 mm hexagonal-tapered hybrid abutments were subjected to fatigue testing to evaluate resistance of cemented metal crowns, applied on-axis and off-axis.
Crowns of three different heights, 10 mm, 12 mm, and 14 mm were assessed.
Retention was evaluated via dislodgement force testing for two configurations, single crowns (n=5) cemented on five 3 mm-high hybrid abutments and five 6 mm-high 8° tapered abutments; and splinted two-unit prostheses (n=10) cemented on two 3 mm-high hybrid abutments and two 3 mm-high 8° tapered abutments, both arranged in converging implant configurations.
All resistance specimens subjected to axial loading survived 1 million cycles.
Off-axis loading resulted in implant body fractures in all specimens for 12 mm and 14 mm crown heights.
Mean number of cycles to failure was 320,117 ± 114,230 for the 12 mm group and 137,375 ± 144,420 for the 14 mm group.
Mean dislodgment forces of single crowns cemented on 3 mm-high hybrid abutments compared to 6 mm-high 8° tapered abutments were significantly different (p<0.05).
Splinted prostheses on 3 mm-high hybrid abutments compared to 3 mm-high 8° tapered abutments were significantly different (p<0.001).
The APSI (hybrid abutment) concept demonstrated: (1) a cemented crown-abutment interface strength exceeding the inherent strength of the titanium implant material; (2) significantly greater cemented crown retention compared to tapered abutments; and (3) rotational adaptability, enabling optimized insertion paths for splinted restorations.
To investigate the rotational load fatigue performance of different implant diameters and abutment platforms of a one-size implant-abutment (OSIA) connection system.
Narrow-, regular-, and wide-diameter implants were tested with regular base (RB/WB) abutments of an OSIA system (BLX, Straumann).
Wide-diameter implants (WDIs) were also tested with wide base (WB) abutments.
This resulted in four test groups: (1) narrow-diameter implants (NDIs; 3.5 mm) with RB/WB abutments, (2) regular-diameter implants (RDIs; 4.0 mm) with RB/WB abutments, (3) WDIs (5.0 mm) with RB/WB abutments, and (4) WDIs (5.0 mm) with WB abutments.
Each group tested five of their respective implants (n = 5).
A rotational load fatigue machine applied a sinusoidally varying stress at a 45-degree angle, producing an effective bending moment of 35 Ncm at a frequency of 10 Hz in 20°C air.
The number of cycles to failure was recorded, and the results were evaluated using two-way ANOVA.
Failed specimens were examined with a scanning electron microscope (SEM) to evaluate the failure mode.
Pristine specimens were sectioned to examine the implant-abutment connection.
All specimens in three of the test groups with RB/WB abutments failed within the range of 558,750 cycles to 4,497,619 cycles, while the WDI-WB test group reached the upper limit of 5 million cycles without failure.
A significant difference was found between abutment platforms (P < .001).
There were no significant differences found for implant diameters (P = .857).
However, with a greater implant diameter, implant fracture was less common, and the failure location was more coronal. It was consistently at the implant platform level for the abutment and at the screw neck.
For WDIs, WB abutments exhibited superior fatigue performance compared to RB/WB abutments and would be preferred in situations of high mechanical risk.
Increasing the implant diameter, when used with RB/WB abutments, did not improve fatigue performance due to the one-size prosthetic connection; however, failures were less catastrophic and coronally located, which may be advantageous in managing failures.
This study investigates the fatigue durability of Plexus MA300 methacrylic adhesive, which is employed in structural joints of metals, plastics, and composites.
Cast adhesive specimens were subjected to cyclic tensile loads at a frequency of 5 Hz with a stress ratio
Intense remodeling occurs in lamellar bone adjacent to osseointegrated endosseous implants.
The purpose of this study was to compare microdamage accumulation subsequent to ex vivo fatigue loading of bone that surrounds an endosseous implant, (a) immediately after placement (nonadapted bone) and (b) following a 12 week healing period after placement (adapted bone).
We hypothesize that there is less microdamage in the more compliant adapted bone than in the older nonadapted bone.
Nonthreaded titanium plasma sprayed (TPS)-coated endosseous implants were placed into dog mid-femoral diaphyses and allowed to heal for 12 weeks.
Block sections of bone, each containing one implant, were cut anteroposteriorly, resulting in an implant containing lateral cortex, and a medial cortex that was used for testing the nonadapted specimens.
Control specimens (n = 14 each for adapted and nonadapted) were loaded at 0 N.
Experimental specimens (n = 13, adapted; n = 14, nonadapted) were loaded at 100 N in cantilever bending for 150,000 cycles at 2 Hz, at 37 degrees C on a Bionix 858 testing machine.
Specimens were bulk stained with basic fuchsin and 120-140 microm sections were obtained.
Crack numerical density (Cr.Dn = Cr.N/ B.Ar, #/mm2), crack surface density (Cr.S.Dn = Tt.Cr.Le/ B.Ar, mm/mm2), and percent damage area (Dm.Ar = Cr.Ar x 100/B.Ar, mm2/mm2) were measured at x 250.
Statistically significant differences (p < 0.0001) were seen for Cr.Dn, Cr.S.Dn, and Dm.Ar on the compressed cortices suggesting that adapted bone near the implant accumulated significantly less microdamage than nonadapted bone.
Also, the adapted nonloaded control specimens had approximately 20-fold less damage than the respective nonadapted specimens.
This study suggests that the compliant adapted bone adjacent to endosseous implants is relatively resistant to fatigue loads.
The high success rates of endosseous implants may be due to the presence of a rapidly remodeling region that maintains tissue compliance and limits microdamage initiation.
The aim of this study was to determine the resistance to impingement damage of three different artificially aged UHMWPE materials used for total hip joint replacement.
The results obtained can be used as a basis for an acceptance criterion for testing according to ASTM F2582-20.
Three different polyethylene liner materials, standard polyethylene (UHMWPE), moderately crosslinked (XLPE) and vitamin E stabilized crosslinked (XLPE-VE) polyethylene of the same design and manufacturer were tested up to one million impingement cycles according to ASTM F2582-20.
The liners were artificially oxygen aged for two and three weeks according to ASTM F2003-02.
The wear volumes of the liner, acetabular shells, and hip endoprosthesis stems were determined.
Each of the six impingement test groups consisted of three samples.
For each test group, a reference group was subjected to the same conditioning and loading conditions but without impingement between the hip stem and the liner.
The force needed to disassemble the liner from the acetabular shell (push-out force) was determined according to ASTM F1820-22 for the test and the reference groups.
XLPE and XLPE-VE polyethylene groups showed less impingement wear when compared to the standard UHMWPE material. Similarly, the protective function of the liner against direct metal-on-metal contact was greater, resulting in less wear on the acetabular shell and the stem neck.
The three weeks aged standard UHMWPE group showed early onset of fatigue delamination wear.
The push-out values remained unchanged for all XLPE liners and the 3-week aged XLPE-VE liners.
The aged UHMWPE liners showed low push-out strength due to component shrinkage caused by aging in combination with the tapered fixation used for this specific design.
The largest polyethylene wear volume measured of XLPE and XLPE-VE polyethylene aged for two and three weeks was 15.05 mm³ (SD 0.56 mm³).
The corresponding metal wear volume was 1.23 mm³ (SD 0.19 mm³) for the acetabular cup and 1.33 mm³ (SD 0.20 mm³) for the stem neck.
Those values can support the definition of an acceptance criteria for impingement testing.
The results of the push-out test required by ASTM F2582-20 should be evaluated with respect to geometry changes caused by aging.
The protective effect of the polyethylene liner against metal-on-metal contact should be considered in the implant design phase in order to avoid implant failure due to metal debris.
The demand for titanium alloy has been increasing in various industries, including aerospace, marine, and biomedical fields, as they fulfilled the need for lightweight, high-strength, and corrosion-resistant material for modern manufacturing.
However, titanium alloy has relatively low hardness, poor wear performance, and fatigue properties, which limits its popularization and application.
These disadvantages could be efficiently overcome by surface strengthening technology, such as the ultrasonic surface rolling process (USRP).
In this study, the true thermo-mechanical deformation behavior of Ti-6Al-4V was obtained by dynamic mechanical experiment using a Hopkinson pressure bar.
Moreover, USRP was applied on the Ti-6Al-4V workpiece with different parameters of static forces to investigate the evolution in surface morphology, surface roughness, microstructure, hardness, residual stress, and fatigue performance.
The strain rate and temperature during the USRP of Ti-6Al-4V under the corresponding conditions were about 3000 s
Diffraction and phase contrast tomography techniques were successfully applied to an austenitic-ferritic duplex stainless steel representing exemplarily a metallic material containing two phases with different crystal structures.
The reconstructed volumes of both phases were discretized by finite elements.
A crystal plasticity finite-element analysis was executed in order to simulate the development of the experimentally determined first and second order residual stresses, which built up due to the manufacturing process of the material. Cyclic deformation simulations showed the single-grain-resolved evolution of initial residual stresses in both phases and were found to be in good agreement with the experimental results.
Solely in ferritic grains, residual stresses built up due to cyclic deformation, which promoted crack nucleation in this phase.
Furthermore, phase contrast tomography was applied in order to analyze the mechanisms of fatigue crack nucleation and short fatigue crack propagation three-dimensionally and nondestructively.
The results clearly showed the significance of microstructural barriers for short fatigue crack growth at the surface, as well as into the material. The investigation presented aims for a better understanding of the three-dimensional mechanisms governing short fatigue crack propagation and, in particular, the effect of residual stresses on these mechanisms.
The final goal was to generate tailored microstructures for improved fatigue resistance and enhanced fatigue life.
The corrosion fatigue properties and fracture characteristics of friction stir welding joints of 7075 aluminum alloys were studied via corrosion fatigue tests, electrochemical measurements, and corrosion fatigue morphology and microstructure observations.
The results show that the corrosion fatigue crack of the friction stir welding (FSW) joint of 7075 aluminum alloys originated in the junction zone between the thermomechanically affected zone and the weld nugget zone.
The corrosion fatigue life of the joint decreased with increasing stress amplitude, with an S-N curve equation of lgN = 5.845 - 0.014S.
Multiple crack sources were observed in the corrosion fatigue fracture.
The main crack source originated from the corrosion pits at the interface between the thermomechanically affected zone and the weld nugget zone due to the influence of the coarse microstructure and the large potential difference between both zones.
Corrosion morphologies of a rock candy block and an ant nest appeared in the crack propagation zone and the grain boundary of the weld nugget zone.
In addition, fatigue speckles and intergranular fractures were observed, as well as brittle fracture characterized by cleavage steps and secondary cracks in the final fracture zone.
The influence of hydrogen on the fracture toughness and fatigue crack propagation rate of two structural steel grades, with and without vanadium, was evaluated by means of tests performed on thermally precharged samples in a hydrogen reactor at 195 bar and 450 °C for 21 h.
The degradation of the mechanical properties was directly correlated with the interaction between hydrogen atoms and the steel microstructure.
A LECO DH603 hydrogen analyzer was used to study the activation energies of the different microstructural trapping sites, and also to study the hydrogen eggresion kinetics at room temperature.
The electrochemical hydrogen permeation technique was employed to estimate the apparent hydrogen diffusion coefficient.
Under the mentioned hydrogen precharging conditions, a very high hydrogen concentration was introduced within the V-added steel (4.3 ppm).
The V-added grade had stronger trapping sites and much lower apparent diffusion coefficient.
Hydrogen embrittlement susceptibility increased significantly due to the presence of internal hydrogen in the V-free steel in comparison with tests carried out in the uncharged condition.
However, the V-added steel grade (+0.31%V) was less sensitive to hydrogen embrittlement.
This fact was ascribed to the positive effect of the precipitated nanometric (Mo,V)C to alleviate hydrogen embrittlement.
Mixed nanometric (Mo,V)C might be considered to be nondiffusible hydrogen-trapping sites, in view of their strong hydrogen-trapping capability (~35 kJ/mol).
Hence, mechanical behavior of the V-added grade in the presence of internal hydrogen was notably improved.
Ultrasonic features play a critical role in evaluating the structural integrity of metallic components, yet current approaches predominantly rely on individual ultrasonic parameters for predictive analysis.
This study presents an online data-driven method that combines linear and nonlinear ultrasonic parameters through an optimized weighting function to predict crack propagation and remaining fatigue life (RFL) over the entire fatigue life from microstructural changes to macroscopic crack formation of plate structures.
LSTM neural networks are employed to learn sequential features captured by various PZTs.
Experimental results on 6061 aluminum plates demonstrate that the proposed method predicts crack length and RFL with average errors of 0.568 mm and 4.50 % of the total fatigue life of the structure, respectively.
Comparative analysis reveals that the combined approach with the optimal weighting function outperforms predictions using individual parameters.
This method shows significant robustness under varying conditions, underscoring its potential for real-time fatigue monitoring and predictive maintenance.
Friction stir processing (FSP) technology has received reasonable attention in the past two decades to process a wide range of materials such as aluminum, magnesium, titanium, steel, and superalloys.
Due to its thermomechanical processing nature, FSP is used to alter grain structure and enhance mechanical and corrosion behavior in a wide range of steels.
The refinement in grains and phase transformations achieved in steel after FSP affects hardness, tensile properties, fracture toughness, fatigue crack propagation rate, wear resistance, and corrosion resistance.
A number of review papers are available on friction stir welding (FSW) or FSP of nonferrous alloys.
In this article, a comprehensive literature review on the FSP/FSW of different types of steels is summarized.
Specifically, the influence of friction stir processing parameters such as advancing speed, rotational speed, tool material, etc., on steels' performance is discussed along with assessment methodologies and recommendations.
Fatigue-induced subchondral bone (SCB) injuries are prevalent among athletes due to the repetitive application of high magnitude loads on joints during intense physical training.
Existing fatigue studies on bone utilize a standard fatigue test approach by applying loads of a constant magnitude and frequency even though physiological/realistic loading is a combination of various load magnitudes and frequencies.
Metal materials in implant and aerospace applications have been studied for fatigue behavior under physiological or realistic loading, however, no such study has been conducted on biological materials like bones.
In this study, we investigated fatigue behavior of SCB under the range of loads likely to occur during a fast-workout of an equine athlete in training.
A loading protocol was developed by simulating physiological loads occurring during a fast-workout of a racehorse in training, which consisted of a sequence of compression-compression load cycles, including a warm-up (32, 54, 61 MPa) and cool-down (61, 54, 32 MPa) before and after the slow/fast/slow gallop phase of training, also referred to as a training loop.
This loading protocol/training loop was applied at room temperature in load-control mode to cylindrical SCB specimens (n = 12) harvested from third metacarpal medial condyles (MCIII) of twelve thoroughbred racehorses and repeated until fatigue failure.
The mean ± standard deviation for total time-to-failure (TTF) was 76,393 ± 64,243 s (equivalent to 18.3 ± 15.7 training workouts) for n = 12 specimens.
We observed the highest relative energy loss (REL, hysteresis loss normalized to energy absorbed in a load cycle) under loads equivalent to gallop speeds and all specimens failed under these gallop loads.
This demonstrates the importance of the gallop speeds in the development of SCB injury, consistent with observations made in live racehorses.
Moreover, specimens with higher mean REL and lower mean stiffness during the first loop had a shorter fatigue life which further confirms the detrimental effect of high energy loss in SCB.
Further studies are required to reconcile our results with fatigue injuries among equine athletes and understand the influence of different training programs on the fatigue behavior of subchondral bone.
Repetitive cyclic loading from daily activities is reported to induce fatigue damage and microcracking in bone structures.
In terms of osteoporotic structures or in cases of serious damage of skeleton segments and the replacement by metallic implants the degree of damage due to cyclic loading will be even more pronounced.
It is generally assumed that fatigue induced cracking and crack propagation essentially act as driving forces for complex physiological phenomena such as remodelling processes of bones and the adaptation to applied loads.
In cases where the crack propagation rate exceeds the remodelling velocity, sudden and unexpected fracture of the bone is observed.
Especially for implant reinforced structures the deviation in stiffness to the bone material can induce high peak stresses and accelerate crack propagation.
Whereas, for cortical bone the mechanical behaviour under cyclic loading is sufficiently described, only rough data are available for trabaecular structures.
In this study the deformation behaviour of bovine vertebra trabecular bone specimens is investigated under cyclic compressive loading.
A powerlaw relationship was found between the applied load ratio and cycles to failure.
A linear decrease of maximum, integral strains at failure with increasing applied load ratio was observed.
Optical deformation measurement of the surface strains revealed that low strains (0-1 increasing applied load ratio whereby the higher strains behave directly opposite.
This indicates that different failure mechanisms are acting at low cycle and high cycle fatigue, respectively.
Meta-biomaterials offer a promising route towards the development of life-lasting implants.
The concept aims to achieve solutions that are ordinarily impossible, by offering a unique combination of mechanical, mass transport, and biological properties through the optimization of their small-scale geometrical and topological designs.
In this study, we primarily focus on auxetic meta-biomaterials that have the extraordinary ability to expand in response to axial tension.
This could potentially improve the longstanding problem of implant loosening, if their performance can be guaranteed in cyclically loaded conditions.
The high-cycle fatigue performance of additively manufactured (AM) auxetic meta-biomaterials made from commercially pure titanium (CP-Ti) was therefore studied.
Small variations in the geometry of the re-entrant hexagonal honeycomb unit cell and its relative density resulted in twelve different designs (relative density: ~5-45%, re-entrant angle = 10-25°, Poisson's ratio = -0.076 to -0.504).
Micro-computed tomography, scanning electron microscopy and mechanical testing were used to respectively measure the morphological and quasi-static properties of the specimens before proceeding with compression-compression fatigue testing.
These auxetic meta-biomaterials exhibited morphological and mechanical properties that are deemed appropriate for bone implant applications (elastic modulus = 66.3-5648 MPa, yield strength = 1.4-46.7 MPa, pore size = 1.3-2.7 mm).
With an average maximum stress level of 0.47 σ
Urban rail wheels endure prolonged exposure to frequent starts and stops, heavy cyclic loads, and complex track conditions, which often lead to premature failure modes such as wear, fatigue cracking, and corrosion in conventional wheel materials.
These limitations restrict their ability to meet the evolving demands of modern rail systems for enhanced durability and performance.
To address this, the present study uses laser cladding to deposit high-entropy alloy coatings with systematically varied aluminium content onto wheel substrates.
The study compares phase composition, microstructure, and mechanical properties across the different coatings.
Results show that increasing Al content transforms the coating microstructure from a single face-centred cubic (FCC) phase to a dual-phase structure of FCC and body-centred cubic (BCC) phases, accompanied by notable grain refinement.
Among the variants, the CrMnFeCoNi(Al)
The element oxygen is expected to be a low-cost, strengthening element of titanium alloys due to its strong solid solution strengthening effect.
High cycle fatigue behaviors of Ti-6Al-4V alloys with different oxygen contents (0.17%, 0.20%, 0.23% wt.%) were investigated in this paper.
The results illustrated that Ti-6Al-4V-0.20O alloy possesses the highest fatigue strength and the lowest fatigue crack propagation rate.
The fatigue fracture morphology verified that the fatigue cracks propagated transgranularly in both Ti-6Al-4V-0.17O and Ti-6Al-4V-0.20O alloys, and the fatigue cracks tended to extend intergranularly in the Ti-6Al-4V-0.23O alloy.
The maximum nano-hardness varied from the <0001> direction to the <1¯21¯0> and <011¯0> directions with the increasing oxygen content, which suggested that the dominant slip system varied from prismatic slip to pyramidal slip.
The number of the <c→+a→> type dislocations increased with the oxygen content, which indicated that the number of the first-order pyramidal and the second-order pyramidal <c→+a→> slip systems increased.
The oxygen can significantly change the fatigue fracture mechanism of Ti-6Al-4V alloy: From transgranular fracture to intergranular fracture.
These results are expected to provide valuable reference for the optimization of the composition and mechanical properties of titanium alloys.
Ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) has remained the primary polymer used in hip, knee and shoulder replacements for over 50 years.
Recent case studies have demonstrated that catastrophic fatigue fracture of the polymer can severely limit device lifetime and are often associated with stress concentration (notches) integrated into the design.
This study evaluates the influence of notch geometry on the fatigue of three formulations of UHMWPE that are in use today.
A linear-elastic fracture mechanics approach is adopted to evaluate crack propagation as a function of notch root radius, heat treatment and Vitamin E additions.
Specifically, a modified stress-intensity factor that accounts for notch geometry was utilized to model the crack driving force.
The degree of notch plasticity for each material/notch combination was further evaluated using finite element methods.
Experimental evaluation of crack speed as a function of stress intensity was conducted under cyclic tensile loading, taking crack length and notch plasticity into consideration.
Results demonstrated that crack propagation in UHMWPE emanating from a notch was primarily affected by microstructural influences (cross-linking) rather than differences in notch geometry.
The reliability of friction stir welded joints is a critical concern, particularly given their potential applications in the aerospace manufacturing industry.
This study offers a quasi-in situ observation of the microstructural response during fatigue crack growth (FCG) of a friction stir welded AA2024-T4 joint, aiming to correlate fatigue crack growth behavior with mechanical properties investigated using electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD).
Notched compact tension (CT) specimens corresponding to the morphology of the stir zone (SZ), advancing side (AS), and retreating side (RS) were meticulously designed.
The findings indicate that the welding process enhances the joint's resistance to fatigue crack growth, with the base metal exhibiting a shorter fatigue life (i.e., ~10
In this work, the mesoscale mechanics of metals, which links their microscopic physics and macroscopic mechanics, was established.
For practical applications, the laws for quantitatively predicting life of cycle and time-dependent fracture behavior such as fatigue, hydrogen embrittlement, and high-temperature creep were derived using particle transport phenomena theories such as dislocation group dynamics, hydrogen diffusion, and vacancy diffusion.
Furthermore, these concepts were also applied for estimating the degree of viscoelastic deterioration of blood vessel walls, which is dominated by a time-dependent mechanism, and for the diagnosis of aneurysm accompanied by the viscoelastic deterioration of the blood vessel wall.
In these theories, new mechanical indexes were derived as dominant factors for predicting the life of fatigue crack growth and the time-dependent fracture of notched specimens of materials such as hydrogen embrittlement and high-temperature creep.
Furthermore, as an example of a practical application, these theories were applied to estimate the degree of viscoelastic deterioration and chaotic motions of blood vessel walls, which are closely related to blood vessel diseases such as atherosclerosis and aneurysm.
Moreover, new indexes to diagnose them were also proposed for clinical applications.
Magnesium (Mg) alloys have attracted great attention as potential materials for biodegradable implants.
It is essential that an implant material possesses adequate resistance to cracking/fracture under the simultaneous actions of corrosion and mechanical stresses, i.e., stress corrosion cracking (SCC) and/or corrosion fatigue (CF).
This study investigates the deformation behaviour of a newly developed high-strength low-alloy Mg alloy, MgZn1Ca0.3 (ZX10), processed at two different extrusion temperatures of 325 and 400°C (named E325 and E400, respectively), under slow strain tensile and cyclic tension-compression loadings in air and modified simulated body fluid (m-SBF).
Extrusion resulted in a bimodal grain size distribution with recrystallised grain sizes of 1.2 μm ± 0.8 μm and 7 ± 5 μm for E325 and E400, respectively.
E325 possessed superior tensile and fatigue properties to E400 when tested in air.
This is mainly attributed to a grain-boundary strengthening mechanism.
However, both E325 and E400 were found to be susceptible to SCC at a strain rate of 3.1×10
Biodegradable electronics are disposable green devices whose constituents decompose into harmless byproducts, leaving no residual waste and minimally invasive medical implants requiring no removal surgery.
Stretchable and flexible form factors are essential in biointegrated electronic applications for conformal integration with soft and expandable skins, tissues, and organs.
Here a fully biodegradable MgZnCa metallic glass (MG) film is proposed for intrinsically stretchable electrodes with a high yield limit exploiting the advantages of amorphous phases with no crystalline defects.
The irregular dissolution behavior of this amorphous alloy regarding electrical conductivity and morphology is investigated in aqueous solutions with different ion species.
The MgZnCa MG nanofilm shows high elastic strain (≈2.6% in the nano-tensile test) and offers enhanced stretchability (≈115% when combined with serpentine geometry).
The fatigue resistance in repeatable stretching also improves owing to the wide range of the elastic strain limit.
Electronic components including the capacitor, inductor, diode, and transistor using the MgZnCa MG electrode support its integrability to transient electronic devices.
The biodegradable triboelectric nanogenerator of MgZnCa MG operates stably over 50 000 cycles and its fatigue resistant applications in mechanical energy harvesting are verified.
In vitro cell toxicity and in vivo inflammation tests demonstrate the biocompatibility in biointegrated use.
Austenitic stainless steel is a vital material in various industries, with excellent heat and corrosion resistance, and is widely used in high-temperature environments as a component for internal combustion engines of transportation vehicles or power plant piping.
These components or structures are required to be durable against severe load conditions and oxidation damage in high-temperature environments during their service life.
In this regard, in particular, oxidation damage and fatigue life are very important influencing factors, while existing studies have focused on materials and fracture behavior.
In order to ensure the fatigue life of austenitic stainless steel, therefore, it is necessary to understand the characteristics of the fracture process with microstructural change including oxidation damage according to the temperature condition.
In this work, low-cycle fatigue tests were performed at various temperatures to determine the oxidation damage together with the fatigue life of austenitic stainless steel containing niobium.
The characteristics of oxidation damage were analyzed through microstructure observations including scanning electron microscope, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, and the X-ray diffraction patterns.
In addition, a unified low-cycle fatigue life model coupled with the fracture mechanism-based lifetime and the Neu-Sehitoglu model for considering the influence of damage by oxidation was proposed.
After the low-cycle fatigue tests at temperatures of 200-800 °C and strain amplitudes of 0.4% and 0.5%, the accuracy of the proposed model was verified by comparing the test results with the predicted fatigue life, and the validity by using the oxidation damage parameters for Mar-M247 was confirmed through sensitivity analysis of the parameters applied in the oxidation damage model.
As a result, the average thickness of the oxide layer and the penetration length of the oxide intrusion were predicted with a mean error range of 14.7% and 13%, respectively, and the low-cycle fatigue life was predicted with a ±2 factor accuracy at the measurement temperatures under all experimental conditions.
Metallic glasses (MGs) exhibit greater elastic limit and stronger resistance to plastic deformation than their crystalline metal counterparts.
Their capacity to withstand plastic straining is further enhanced at submicrometer length scales.
For a range of microelectromechanical applications, the resistance of MGs to damage and cracking from thermal and mechanical stress or strain cycling under partial or complete constraint is of considerable scientific and technological interest.
However, to our knowledge, no real-time, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy observations are available of crystallization, damage, and failure from the controlled imposition of cyclic strains or displacements in any metallic glass.
Here we present the results of a unique in situ study, inside a high-resolution transmission electron microscope, of glass-to-crystal formation and fatigue of an Al-based MG.
We demonstrate that cyclic straining progressively leads to nanoscale surface roughening in the highly deformed region of the starter notch, causing crack nucleation and formation of nanocrystals.
The growth of these nanograins during cyclic straining impedes subsequent crack growth by bridging the crack.
In distinct contrast to this fatigue behavior, only distributed nucleation of smaller nanocrystals is observed with no surface roughening under monotonic deformation.
We further show through molecular dynamics simulation that these findings can be rationalized by the accumulation of strain-induced nonaffine atomic rearrangements that effectively enhances diffusion through random walk during repeated strain cycling.
The present results thus provide unique insights into fundamental mechanisms of fatigue of MGs that would help shape strategies for material design and engineering applications.
The objective of this work was to develop a methodology for the prediction of fatigue life of the dentin-adhesive (d-a) interface.
At the micro-scale, the d-a interface is composed of dissimilar material components.
Under global loading, these components experience different local stress amplitudes.
The overall fatigue life of the d-a interface is, therefore, determined by the material component that has the shortest fatigue life under local stresses.
Multiple 3d finite element (FE) models were developed to determine the stress distribution within the d-a interface by considering variations in micro-scale geometry, material composition and boundary conditions.
The results from these models were analyzed to obtain the local stress concentrations within each d-a interface component.
By combining the local stress concentrations and experimentally determined stress versus number of cycle to failure (S-N) curves for the different material components, the overall fatigue life of the d-a interface was predicted.
The fatigue life was found to be a function of the applied loading amplitude, boundary conditions, microstructure and the mechanical properties of the material components of the d-a interface.
In addition, it was found that the overall fatigue life of the d-a interface is not determined by the weakest material component.
In many cases, the overall fatigue life was determined by the adhesive although exposed collagen was the weakest material component.
Comparison of the predicted results with experimental data from the literature showed both qualitative and quantitative agreement.
The methodology developed for fatigue life prediction can provide insight into the mechanisms that control degradation of the bond formed at the d-a interface.
The fatigue behaviors of metals are different under different in-service environment and loading conditions.
This study was devoted to investigating the combined effects of high and low cycle fatigue loads on the performance of the low alloy steel Q345.
Three kinds of experiments were carried out, including the pure high cycle fatigue (HCF) tests, the pure low cycle fatigue (LCF) tests, and the combined high and low cycle fatigue (HLCF) tests.
The prediction formulae were proposed for the combined high and low cycle fatigue failure.
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and stereo microscope were used to analyze the microstructure and fracture morphology due to different fatigue loads.
Case study on the combined high and low cycle fatigue damage of a steel arch bridge was carried out based on the FE method and the proposed formula.
The results show that the LCF life decreases evidently due to the prior HCF damages.
The HLCF fracture surface is relatively flat near the crack initiation side, and rugged at the other half part.
The fatigue damages at the bridge joints increase significantly with consideration of the pre-fatigue damages caused by traffic load.
In the 100th anniversary of service, the fatigue damage index without considering the HCF pre-damage is only about 50% of the coupled damage value.
This paper deals with metal matrix composites (MMCs) of Al 7075 alloy containing different weight percentage (2.5, 5, 7.5, and 10) basalt short fiber reinforcement and unreinforced matrix alloy.
The samples were produced by the permanent stir casting technique.
The casting ingots were cut into blanks to be forged in single stage and double stage, using MN press and graphite-based lubricant.
The microstructures and fatigue properties of the matrix alloy and MMC samples were investigated in the as cast state and in the single and double stage forging operations.
The microstructure results showed that the forged sample had a uniform distribution of the basalt short fiber throughout the specimens.
Evaluation of the fatigue properties showed that the forged samples had higher values than those of the as cast counterparts.
After forging, the enhancement of the fatigue strength of the matrix alloy was so significant and high in the case of 2.5 and 5.0 wt. percentage basalt short fiber reinforced MMC, and there was no enhancement in 7.5 and 10 weight percentages short fiber reinforced MMCs.
The fracture damage was mainly due to decohesion at the matrix-fiber interface.
New elastoplastic J 2 -flow constitutive equations at finite deformations are proposed for the purpose of simulating the fatigue failure behavior for metal matrix composites.
A new, direct approach is established in a two-fold sense of unification.
Namely, both low and high cycle fatigue failure effects of metal matrix composites may be simultaneously simulated for various cases of the weight percentage of reinforcing particles.
Novel results are presented in four respects.
First, both the yield condition and the loading-unloading conditions in a usual sense need not be involved but may be automatically incorporated into inherent features of the proposed constitutive equations; second, low-to-high cycle fatigue failure effects may be directly represented by a simple condition for asymptotic loss of the material strength, without involving any additional damage-like variables; third, both high and low cycle fatigue failure effects need not be separately treated but may be automatically derived as model predictions with a unified criterion for critical failure states, without assuming any ad hoc failure criteria; and, finally, explicit expressions for each incorporated model parameter changing with the weight percentage of reinforcing particles may be obtainable directly from appropriate test data.
Numerical examples are presented for medium-to-high cycle fatigue failure effects and for complicated duplex effects from low to high cycle fatigue failure effects.
Simulation results are in good agreement with experimental data.
Amid surging demand for intelligent devices, developing flexible piezoresistive sensors with high strength, high resilience, a broad pressure response range and high sensitivity in a single material remains challenging, particularly for natural rubber latex (NRL) sponges with disordered structures and poor filler dispersion.
Inspired by the hierarchical tracheid structure of wood, we fabricated an NRL/micro-fibrillated cellulose/graphene nanoplatelets@carbon nanotubes (NRL/MFC/GNPs@CNTs) sponge with a highly ordered, wood-like hierarchical tracheid structure through bidirectional freeze-casting and hot-water vulcanization.
In this system, NRL served as the elastic matrix, while MFC acted as the pore wall reinforcer and the green dispersing agent that utilized its fibrillated structure to facilitate the uniform dispersion of GNPs and CNTs and prevent their aggregation.
Furthermore, the incorporated CNTs promoted the bridge connection of adjacent GNPs to construct a continuous and robust three-dimensional conductive network within the sponge.
The optimized sponge (NRL:MFC:GNPs:CNTs = 100:3:30:10, frozen at -70 °C) exhibited outstanding mechanical strength (6.46 MPa at 80% strain), excellent compressibility, high resilience and fatigue resistance (95.2% stress retention after 500 cycles).
Benefiting from the bioinspired hierarchical tracheid structure, the fibrillated structure of MFC and the bridging effects of CNTs, the sponge demonstrated ultrahigh sensitivity, a broad sensing range, rapid response/recovery and reliable stability.
As a high-performance piezoresistive sensor, NRL/MFC/GNPs@CNTs sponge were demonstrated its potential in flexible electronics, such as health monitoring, prosthetic e-skin, and the identification of spatial pressure distribution and motion trajectory.
This bioinspired strategy provides rich possibilities for designing high-performance biomimetic conductive materials for the next-generation green and intelligent electronics.
The purpose of the present study was to characterize the elastic modulus and Poisson's ratio of a resin cement with distinct viscosities, and to evaluate their impact on the static and fatigue strength of a translucent zirconia (4Y-PSZ) after air-abrasion surface treatment.
Bar-shaped specimens of two different viscosities of resin cement (high and low) were obtained (25 × 10 × 3 mm).
Sonelastic and Maxwell principles tests were performed to determine the elastic modulus and Poisson's ratio of each resin cement.
Disc-shaped specimens of 4Y-PSZ were made (Ø = 15 mm, 1.2 mm in thickness) for the mechanical tests and allocated into groups according to two factors: surface treatment (presence or absence of air-abrasion with alumina particles; 45 μm grain-size); cement (absence, low or high viscosity).
The static (n = 10) and cyclical (n = 15) biaxial flexural strength tests were performed by piston-on-three-balls geometry.
A fatigue strength test was executed (20 Hz, initial stress of 60 MPa [12% of the mean static biaxial flexural strength], followed by increments of 25 MPa [5% of the mean static biaxial flexural strength] at each step of 10,000 cycles until the failure).
The obtained data were analyzed by Weibull analysis.
Survival rates were tabulated by the Kaplan-Meier test.
Complementary analyses of surface roughness, topography, cross-sectional interfacial zone, fractography, and zirconia crystalline content (X-ray diffraction) were also performed.
The evaluated resin cements with high and low viscosity presented similar elastic modulus (13.63 GPa; 12.74 GPa) and Poisson's ratio (0.32; 0.30), respectively.
The air-abraded groups depicted higher mechanical strength of the zirconia ceramics than non-abraded groups (p˂ 0.05), regardless of the resin cement. 4Y-PSZ adhesively bonded to a high or low viscosity resin cement have statistically similar behavior (p˃ 0.05).
The mechanical structural reliability of the 4Y-PSZ was not affected by the factors.
Therefore, resin cement with high and low viscosity presented similar properties and potential to fill the zirconia surface, and did not affect the mechanical behavior of 4Y-PSZ.
However, the air-abrasion surface treatment increased the static and fatigue flexural strength of the translucent zirconia.
The aim of the present work was to investigate the 'fine granular area' (FGA) formation based on artificially generated internal defects in additively manufactured Ti6Al4V specimens in the early stage of fatigue crack growth in the 'very high cycle fatigue' (VHCF) regime.
Fatigue tests were performed with constant amplitude at pure tension-compression loading (
Using metal additive manufacturing processes can make up for traditional forging technologies when forming complex-shaped parts.
At the same time, metal additive manufacturing has a fast forming speed and excellent manufacturing flexibility, so it is widely used in the aerospace industry and other fields.
The fatigue strength of metal additive manufacturing is related to the microstructure of the epitaxially grown columnar grains and crystallographic texture.
The crystal plasticity finite element method is widely used in the numerical simulation of the microstructure and macro-mechanical response of materials, which provides a strengthening and toughening treatment and can reveal the inner rules of material deformation.
This paper briefly introduces common metal additive manufacturing processes.
In terms of additive manufacturing fatigue, crystal plasticity simulations are summarized and discussed with regard to several important influencing factors, such as the microstructure, defects, surface quality, and residual stress.
Owing to the current global scenario of environmental pollution and the energy crisis, the development of new dielectrics using lead-free ceramics for application in advanced electronic and energy storage systems is essential because of the high power density and excellent stability of such ceramics.
Unfortunately, most of them have low breakdown strength and/or low maximum polarization, resulting in low energy density and efficiency.
To overcome this limitation here, lead-free ceramics comprising a layered structure are designed and fabricated.
By optimizing the distribution of the layered structure, a large maximum polarization and high applied electric field (>500 kV cm
Nanoparticles or precipitates are long used to block dislocations to strengthen metals.
However, this strengthening mechanism unavoidably adds stress concentrations at the obstacles, instigating crack initiation that hampers ductility.
Here, we demonstrate a strategy that replaces the traditional crystalline dispersions with dense amorphous nanoparticles, which is made possible via laser powder bed fusion.
Porosity-free copper-based nanocomposites are demonstrated as a prototype, consisting of densely and uniformly distributed amorphous boron-carbide nanoparticles (~47 nm in average diameter, up to 12% volume fraction) via an in situ nanofragmentation and melt-quench process.
The amorphous nanoparticles act as dislocation sinks, thereby alleviating local stress concentration.
They also self-harden along with tensile deformation, promoting strain hardening and therefore homogeneous plastic flow.
The as-built composite achieves a tensile strength of more than one gigapascal and a total elongation of approximately 10%, more than twice that of its crystalline dispersion counterpart.
Defect accumulation is also suppressed upon cyclic deformation of the as-built bulk nanocomposites, delivering a fatigue strength limit (at > 10
This study investigated the effect of zirconia surface treatment (air-abrasion with aluminum oxide or tribochemical silica coating) and aging on the fatigue behavior of thin monolithic Y-TZP (yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia polycrystal) restorations cemented with 2 types of resin cements, containing or not containing MDP, to a dentin-like substrate.
Y-TZP ceramic (Zenostar T, diameter (Ø) 10 mm, 0.7 mm thick) and dentin-like discs (Ø 10 mm, 2.8 mm thick) were assigned into eight groups according to three factors: 'zirconia surface treatment' (aluminum oxide particles air-abrasion 'AO'; or tribochemical silica coating via silica-coated aluminum trioxide particles air-abrasion + silanization 'SC'); 'MDP-containing resin cement' (with: Panavia F2.0, 'MDP'; or without: Multilink Automix, 'nMDP'); and 'aging' (baseline; or aged - 'AG':12,000 thermal cycles + 60 days water storage).
Y-TZP intaglio surface was conditioned and dentin-like substrate was etched with hydrofluoric acid prior to bonding.
Aging was performed in half of the specimens before the fatigue testing (Staircase, 20 Hz; 250,000 cycles).
Fractographic and topographic characteristics were analyzed by stereomicroscope and SEM.
Prior to aging, no significant difference was found between the two surface treatments, irrespective to the cement.
Samples bonded with resin cement containing MDP had a significant reduction in their fatigue failure load when Y-TZP was air-abraded with aluminum oxide particles and subjected to aging (MDP-AO = 2050.71
Hydrogen embrittlement (HE) is a broadly recognized phenomenon in metallic materials.
If not well understood and managed, HE may lead to catastrophic environmental failures in vessels containing hydrogen, such as pipelines and storage tanks.
HE can affect the mechanical properties of materials such as ductility, toughness, and strength, mainly through the interaction between metal defects and hydrogen.
Various phenomena such as hydrogen adsorption, hydrogen diffusion, and hydrogen interactions with intrinsic trapping sites like dislocations, voids, grain boundaries, and oxide/matrix interfaces are involved in this process.
It is important to understand HE mechanisms to develop effective hydrogen resistant strategies.
Tensile, double cantilever beam, bent beam, and fatigue tests are among the most common techniques employed to study HE.
This article reviews hydrogen diffusion behavior, mechanisms, and characterization techniques.
In electronic packaging products in the service process, the solder joints experience thermal fatigue due to temperature cycles, which have a significant influence on the performance of electronic products and the reliability of solder joints.
In this paper, the thermal fatigue failure mechanism of solder joints in microelectronic packages, the microstructure changes of the thermal fatigue process, the influence factors on the joint fatigue life, and the simulation analysis and forecasting of thermal fatigue life are reviewed.
The results show that the solder joints are heterogeneously coarsened, and this leads to fatigue cracks occurring under the elevated high-temperature phase of alternating temperature cycles.
However, the thickness of the solder and the hold time in the high-temperature phase do not significantly influence the thermal fatigue.
The coarsened region and the IMC layer thicken with the number of cycles, and the cracks initiate and propagate along the interface between the intermetallic compound (IMC) layer and coarsened region, eventually leading to solder joint failure.
For lead-containing and lead-free solders, the lead-containing solder shows a faster fatigue crack growth rate and propagates by transgranular mode.
Temperature and frequency affect the thermal fatigue life of solder joints to different degrees, and the fatigue lifetime of solder joints can be predicted through a variety of methods and simulated crack trajectories, but also through the use of a unified constitutive model and finite element analysis for prediction.
A conventional (gamma 2-containing) dental amalgam was fatigue-tested at 1800 and 80 cycles/min, employing uni-axial, sinusoidal loading, with R = -8.
Compressive, tensile, and creep tests were conducted to characterize the alloy's static mechanical behavior.
Tests were performed at 37 degrees C on specimens which were aged for seven days, at 37 degrees C.
Fatigue-tested specimens were microscopically examined for fracture surface appearance and crack path.
The amalgam demonstrated a frequency dependence and a significant reduction in fracture strength due to fatigue loading.
The fatigue crack path was primarily intergranular in the gamma 1 phase and inclined at approximately 45 degrees to the principal stress axis.
These observations are characteristic of some metals when subjected to low-frequency, elevated temperature testing where significant grain boundary sliding occurs, and therefore suggest a creep-fatigue interaction for this alloy.
Fatigue properties and cracking behavior of cold-drawn commercially pure aluminum wires (CPAWs) widely used as the overhead transmission conductors were investigated.
It was found that the fracture surface of the CPAWs shows an obvious four-stage fracture characteristic, i.e., crack initiation, planar crack propagation, 45°-inclined crack propagation and final rapid fracture.
The crack growth mechanisms for the CPAWs were found quite different from those for the conventional coarse-grained materials.
The cracks in the CPAWs firstly grow along the grain boundaries (Stage I crack growth), and then grow along the plane of maximum shear stress during the last stage of cycling (Stage II crack growth), leading to the distinctive fracture surfaces, i.e., the granular surface in the planar crack propagation region and the coarse fatigue striations in the 45°-inclined crack propagation region.
The grain boundary migration was observed in the fatigued CPAWs.
The increase in fatigue load enhances the dislocation recovery, increases the grain boundary migration rate, and thus promotes the occurrence of softening and damage localization up to the final failure.
Dental zirconium oxide restorations are milled from pre-sintered blocks or disks which are produced either with high isostatic pressure (HIP) or, simpler, a slurry technique.
The objective was to perform a fatigue test and an in vitro wear simulation of two ceramics, yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia polycrystal (3Y-TZP) ceramic and a hybrid zirconium oxide-aluminum oxide ceramic, (ATZ) both produced either the classical way using high isostatic pressure (HIP, control) or with a slurry technique.
Ten discs/group were subjected to a cyclic biaxial fatigue test using a staircase approach under water at 37 °C in a dynamic universal testing machine.
The 2-body wear test was performed on eight lapped 12 mm thick cylindrical samples subjected to spherical (ø 6 mm) leucite ceramic antagonists in a CS-4 chewing simulator at 49 N force and 0.7 mm lateral movement for 600 k cycles and 4167 thermal cycles (5-55 °C).
Volumetric wear was calculated based on laser-scanned surfaces.
Selected samples of both tests were viewed in SEM.
All the ceramic specimens produced using the HIP method survived up to 1.2 M cycles with the maximum load of the equipment (1000 N) loading the specimens up to 1527 MPa. The fatigue limit stress at 1.2 M cycles for the Slurry ATZ samples was 946 MPa. For the Slurry Y-TZP samples the fatigue limit stress at 1.2 M cycles was 658 MPa. At 600 k cycles, all zirconium oxide ceramics showed no measurable wear and had a highly polished appearance.
The leucite ceramic antagonists wear developed in a linear way.
There was no difference between the materials produced with the slurry and the HIP process.
ATZ ceramic produced significantly more wear than 3Y- TZP ceramic.
The HIP method provided higher fatigue strength than the Slurry manufacturing method.
All HIP ceramics surpassed the limit threshold (1527 MPa) of the testing machine.
The tested ceramics did not show any measurable wear but had worn the leucite reinforced glass ceramic antagonists for a considerable amount.
Recent studies have demonstrated that the utilisation of aluminium in electrical applications has increased substantially, particularly in the context of power cables.
The substitution of copper with aluminium in cable fabrication is predominantly driven by economic considerations.
When designing such cables, it is imperative to ascertain their functional properties, including their electrical conductivity and mechanical properties, and their operational properties, which include rheological, thermal, and material fatigue resistance.
This is to ensure that the aluminium and copper cables are compatible.
The primary challenge confronting researchers in this domain pertains to predicting and forecasting the failure of overhead cables during their operational lifecycle.
One of the most significant and prevalent operational hazards is fatigue damage.
This article presents the experimental results of fatigue tests on single Al and Cu wires in various states of mechanical reinforcement.
The parameters of the Wöhler curve were determined, and a comparative analysis of the morphology of fatigue damage in single copper and aluminium wires was performed.
It was found that copper wires are more fatigue-resistant than aluminium wires.
In the case of high-cycle fatigue, this difference can amount to 10
Contact of implants with high-frequency cauterising instruments has serious implications for patient safety.
Studies have reported a possible direct connection of fatigue failure of Ti-6Al-4V implants with electrocautery contact.
Such contacts were observed at the polished neck of titanium hip stems, which are subjected to high-tension loads.
Evidence of electrocautery contact has also been found on a retrieved spinal fixator with a rough surface; however, no fatigue failure related to electrocautery contact has been reported thus far.
The influence of the heat-affected zone caused by flashover on the mechanical behaviour of the Ti-6Al-4V titanium alloy is not yet fully understood.
Then, the aim of this study was to investigate whether the polished areas of Ti-6Al-4V implants are especially susceptible to fatigue failure after electrocautery contact.
Flashovers caused by electrocautery contact were induced on titanium specimens with different surface roughnesses.
These specimens were subjected to cyclic loading in a four-point-bending test setup, which represented the stress resulting from physiological loading activities (~861 MPa).
In this test setup, electrocautery contact was found to reduce the fatigue strength of the titanium alloy significantly-by up to 96%-as revealed from the median value of the cycles to failure.
Cycles to failure showed a dependence on the flashover duration, with a flashover for 40 ms leading to fatigue fracture.
Despite the lower fatigue strength of a rough polished surface in the undamaged state, it is less prone to the damaging effect of flashover than a smooth polished surface.
Realizing fully stretchable electronic materials is central to advancing new types of mechanically agile and skin-integrable optoelectronic device technologies.
Here we demonstrate a materials design concept combining an organic semiconductor film with a honeycomb porous structure with biaxially prestretched platform that enables high-performance organic electrochemical transistors with a charge transport stability over 30-140% tensional strain, limited only by metal contact fatigue.
The prestretched honeycomb semiconductor channel of donor-acceptor polymer poly(2,5-bis(2-octyldodecyl)-3,6-di(thiophen-2-yl)-2,5-diketo-pyrrolopyrrole-alt-2,5-bis(3-triethyleneglycoloxy-thiophen-2-yl) exhibits high ion uptake and completely stable electrochemical and mechanical properties over 1,500 redox cycles with 10
Nitinol implants, especially those used in cardiovascular applications, are typically expected to remain durable beyond 10
The fracture behavior of a locking pin used in the penultimate-stage blades of a 600 MW steam turbine in a thermal power plant was investigated through microstructural and microhardness characterization, fracture surface and energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) analysis, as well as finite element load simulation.
The microhardness values measured on the cross-section of the service pins ranged from 528 to 541 HV0.1, showing little difference from the unused pins.
Scanning electron microscopy analysis revealed that approximately 70% of the fracture surfaces exhibited an intergranular "rock candy" morphology.
The results indicate that pin failure was primarily caused by the combined effects of fretting wear and stress corrosion cracking (SCC).
Specifically, vibration at the blade root, impeller, and pins due to start-stop cycles and load variations led to fretting wear, forming pits approximately 75 μm in size.
Under the combined effects of weakly corrosive wet steam environments and shear stresses, SCC initiated at the high stress concentration points of these pits.
Early crack propagation primarily followed original austenite grain boundaries, while later stages mainly extended along martensite plate boundaries.
As cracks advanced, the cross-sectional area gradually decreased, causing the effective shear stress to increase until it exceeded the shear strength, ultimately leading to fracture.
These findings not only provide a scientific basis for enhancing the reliability of steam turbine locking pins and extending their service life, but also contribute to a broader understanding of the failure mechanisms of key components operating under corrosive and fluctuating load environments.
The chemical, physical, and electrical properties of the atomic layer deposited Hf
To evaluate the reliability of narrow diameter dental implants (NDIs) with similar macrogeometry and 3 implant-abutment connection designs.
Eighty-four NDIs (3.5 × 10 mm) were selected and divided into 4 groups (n = 21/group) according to implant-abutment connection design, as follows: EH - external hexagon, IH - internal hexagon, IC - internal conical, and IC-M - internal conical connected to a monolithic titanium abutment.
Identical abutments were torqued to the implants, and standardized maxillary incisor crowns were cemented and subjected to step-stress accelerated life testing (SSALT) in water.
Use of level probability Weibull curves, and reliability for a mission of 50,000 cycles at 75 N and 200 N were calculated.
The beta (β) values were: 1.48 for IC, 1.40 for IC-M, 8.54 for EH, and 1.98 for IH, indicating that damage accumulation was an acceleration factor for failure of all groups.
At 75 N the probability of survival was not significantly different between groups.
A decrease in reliability was observed for all groups at 200 N with no significant differences between IC (81.71%) and IC-M (94.28%), or between EH and IH (0%) which presented the lowest values.
EH failures were primarily restricted to the screw, while IH involved screw and implant fracture.
IC and IC-M were restricted to prosthetic failures (fracture and bending).
Narrow implants with external or internal hexagon connections presented the lowest reliability at high loads compared to internal conical connections.
Failure modes differed among connections.
Ultra-high-molecular-weight-polyethylene (UHMWPE) has been the material of choice for bearings in total joint replacements (TJRs) for decades as a result of its excellent wear resistance, chemical inertness, energetic toughness, low friction, and biocompatibility.
Utilization of this polymer in orthopedic devices requires oxidation, wear, and fatigue resistance.
Balancing these important properties by tailoring processing techniques and modulating microstructural features has been an ongoing endeavor in the field.
Research into the clinical applications of UHMWPE has primarily focused on the challenges of wear and oxidation while studies into the realm of fatigue have been more limited.
Literature gaps exist in fully understanding the fatigue crack initiation near notches or propagation of small existing flaws in UHMWPE used in TJRs.
In particular, the characterization of the fatigue thresholds and near-threshold fatigue behavior of orthopedic grade UHMWPE has yet to be thoroughly explored.
In this work, we characterized the fatigue crack arrest threshold of clinically-relevant UHMWPE formulations.
Correlations between the fatigue thresholds and bulk mechanical properties as well as microstructural properties were examined across these medical resins.
The important role played by crosslinking in influencing the fatigue performance of UHMWPE is highlighted in this study.
In addition, it is established that J-integral fracture toughness is the best predictor of fatigue thresholds and could possibly be used as a stand-in metric for fatigue performance if thresholds cannot be directly ascertained.
Finally, this study corroborates that the true constitutive parameters best describe the mechanical behavior of UHMWPE.
In additive manufacturing, the variation of the fabrication process parameters influences the mechanical properties of a material such as tensile strength, impact toughness, hardness, fatigue strength, and so forth, but fatigue testing of metals fabricated with all different sets of process parameters is a very expensive and time-consuming process.
Therefore, the nominal process parameters by means of minimum energy input were first identified for a dense part and then the optimized process parameters were determined based on the tensile and impact toughness test results obtained for 304L stainless steel deposited in laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) process.
Later, the high cycle fatigue performance was investigated for the material built with these two sets of parameters at horizontal, vertical, and inclined orientation.
In this paper, displacement controlled fully reversed (R = -1) bending type fatigue tests at different levels of displacement amplitude were performed on Krouse type miniature specimens.
The test results were compared and analyzed by applying the control signal monitoring (CSM) method.
The analysis shows that specimen built-in horizontal direction for optimized parameters demonstrates the highest fatigue strength while the vertical specimen built with nominal parameters exhibits the lowest strength.
Bone is an anisotropic material with a hierarchical structure consisting of organic matrix, minerals and water.
Fracture toughness (K(C)) has been shown to be a good index to assess the mechanical performance of bone.
A chevron-notched (CN) beam test, a standard fracture mechanics test successfully applied to many other materials, was used to determine the transverse-direction fracture toughness in manatee rib and bovine femur cortical bone.
Although human and bovine bone has been well studied, there is virtually no information on the toughness of manatee rib bone.
As a biological material, manatee rib is interesting for study in that it is a highly mineralized bone.
Three major advantages of the CN specimen test are: (1) it is easier to reach plane strain condition; (2) there is no fatigue-precracking needed; and (3) it is relatively easy to produce stable crack propagation before catastrophic fracture.
The fracture toughness values of manatee rib and bovine femur were measured to be 4.5 +/- 0.5 MPa m(1/2) and 5.8 +/- 0.5 MPa m(1/2), respectively.
Based on the microstructures shown in SEM images, two features that contributed to the greater fracture toughness of bovine femur were identified as greater osteon density and lesser porosity.
AerMet 100 steel is a new type of double-hardened high-strength steel, which is often used as landing gear material in amphibious aircraft.
In the present paper, the corrosion fatigue behavior and mechanism of AerMet 100 high-strength steel in a 3.5% NaCl solution was studied by stress-controlled fatigue tests and a series of subsequent characterizations of the fracture surface, microstructure, and cracks.
The results indicated that the fatigue life of AerMet 100 high-strength steel decreased with a decrease in the stress level in a 3.5% NaCl solution, satisfying the relationship lgN = -2.69 × 10
In this paper, 316L stainless steel powder was processed and formed by selective laser melting (SLM).
The microstructure of the sample was studied using an optical microscope, and the fatigue failure of the sample and the characteristics of crack initiation and propagation were analyzed, providing a research basis for the application of SLM-316L.
Due to the influence of microstructure and SLM process defects, the fatigue cracks of SLM-316L mainly emerged due to defects such as lack of fusion and pores, while the cracks of rolled 316L initiated at the inclusions near the surface of the specimen.
After fatigue microcrack initiation of the SLM-316L specimen, due to the existence of shear stress and tear stress, the crack tip was passivated and Z-shaped propagation was formed.
The existence of internal defects in SLM-316L made the microcrack initiation random and diverse.
At the same time, the existence of defects affected the crack propagation in the form of bending, bifurcation and bridge, which made the main crack propagation deviate from the maximum load direction.
The failure behavior of steel wire ropes under heavy load conditions is a complex system involving the interaction of mechanical damage, lubrication status, and detection technology.
Despite numerous studies, the existing literature seriously lacks a systematic framework to correlate the structural integrity and deformation behavior of gel-like grease and its central role in suppressing the critical failure modes (wear, fatigue, corrosion) of steel wire ropes.
This review aims to fill this critical knowledge gap.
By critically synthesizing existing studies, this paper explains for the first time how the microstructural evolution and rheological behavior of gel-like grease can ultimately determine the macroscopic failure process and life of steel wire ropes by influencing the interfacial tribological processes.
We further demonstrate, based on the understanding of the above mechanism, how to optimize the detection strategy and design high-performance gel-like greases for specific working conditions.
Ultimately, this work not only provides a unified perspective for understanding the system reliability of steel wire ropes but also lays a solid theoretical foundation for the future development of intelligent mechanism-based lubrication and predictive maintenance technologies.
Motion sensors are an essential component of many electronic systems.
However, the development of inertial motion sensors based on fatigue-free soft proof mass has not been explored extensively in the field of soft electronics.
Nontoxic gallium-based liquid metals are an emerging class of material that exhibit attractive electromechanical properties, making them excellent proof mass materials for inertial sensors.
Here, we propose and demonstrate a fully soft laser-induced graphene (LIG) and liquid metal-based inertial sensor integrated with temperature, humidity, and breathing sensors.
The inertial sensor design confines a graphene-coated liquid metal droplet inside a fluidic channel, rolling over LIG resistive electrode.
The proposed sensor architecture and material realize a highly mobile proof mass and a vibrational space for its oscillation.
The inertial sensor exhibits a high sensitivity of 6.52% m
The fatigue behaviour of Ti-6Al-4V (extra low interstital) alloy coated with Ti-6Al-4V powder was investigated using rotating bending fatigue testing.
It was found that the high cycle fatigue strength of porous coated specimens exhibited a substantial decrease compared to uncoated specimens of the same microstructure.
Chemical analysis of the sintered surface revealed significant increases of interstitials compared to the bulk analysis, but it is concluded that this would not adversely affect the fatigue strength.
Scanning electron microscopy revealed crack initiation close to particle/substrate contact interfaces and it is concluded that stress intensification due to these interface regions are major sources of weakness with respect to fatigue strength.
Finally it was found that subjecting a polished Ti-6Al-4V specimen to the heat treatment required for sintering resulted in delineation of prior beta grain boundaries and it is suggested that this also contributes to the inferior fatigue strength of porous coated Ti-6Al-4V.
This paper provides new insights into the fatigue properties of porous metallic biomaterials produced by additive manufacturing.
Cylindrical porous samples with diamond unit cells were produced from Ti6Al4V powder using Selective Laser Melting (SLM).
After measuring all morphological and quasi-static properties, compression-compression fatigue tests were performed to determine fatigue strength and to identify important fatigue influencing factors.
In a next step, post-SLM treatments were used to improve the fatigue life of these biomaterials by changing the microstructure and by reducing stress concentrators and surface roughness.
In particular, the influence of stress relieving, hot isostatic pressing and chemical etching was studied.
Analytical and numerical techniques were developed to calculate the maximum local tensile stress in the struts as function of the strut diameter and load.
With this method, the variability in the relative density between all samples was taken into account.
The local stress in the struts was then used to quantify the exact influence of the applied post-SLM treatments on the fatigue life.
A significant improvement of the fatigue life was achieved.
Also, the post-SLM treatments, procedures and calculation methods can be applied to different types of porous metallic structures and hence this paper provides useful tools for improving fatigue performance of metallic biomaterials.
Additive Manufacturing (AM) techniques such as Selective Laser Melting (SLM) are increasingly being used for producing customized porous metallic biomaterials.
These biomaterials are regularly used for biomedical implants and hence a long lifetime is required.
In this paper, a set of post-built surface and heat treatments is presented that can be used to significantly improve the fatigue life of porous SLM-Ti6Al4V samples.
In addition, a novel and efficient analytical local stress method was developed to accurately quantify the influence of the post-built treatments on the fatigue life.
Also numerical simulation techniques were used for validation.
The developed methods and techniques can be applied to other types of porous biomaterials and hence provide new and useful tools for improving and predicting the fatigue life of porous biomaterials.
Additively manufactured porous titanium implants, in addition to preserving the excellent biocompatible properties of titanium, have very small stiffness values comparable to those of natural bones.
Although usually loaded in compression, biomedical implants can also be under tensional, shear, and bending loads which leads to crack initiation and propagation in their critical points.
In this study, the static and fatigue crack propagation in additively manufactured porous biomaterials with porosities between 66% and 84% is investigated using compact-tension (CT) samples.
The samples were made using selective laser melting from Ti-6Al-4V and were loaded in tension (in static study) and tension-tension (in fatigue study) loadings.
The results showed that displacement accumulation diagram obtained for different CT samples under cyclic loading had several similarities with the corresponding diagrams obtained for cylindrical samples under compression-compression cyclic loadings (in particular, it showed a two-stage behavior).
For a load level equaling 50% of the yield load, both the CT specimens studied here and the cylindrical samples we had tested under compression-compression cyclic loading elsewhere exhibited similar fatigue lives of around 10
Simultaneously having competitive compressive properties, fatigue-resistant stability, excellent conductivity and sensitivity has still remained a challenge for acrylic-based conductive hydrogels, which is critical in their use in the sensor areas where pressure is performed.
In this work, an integrated strategy was proposed for preparing a conductive hydrogel based on acrylic acid (AA) and sodium alginate (SA) by addition of carboxylic-cellulose nanocrystals (CNC-COOH) followed by metal ion interaction to reinforce its compressive strength and conductivity simultaneously.
The CNC-COOH played a multifunctional role in the hydrogel by well-dispersing SA and AA in the hydrogel precursor solution for forming a uniform semi-interpenetrating network, providing more hydrogen bonds with SA and AA, more -COOH for metal ion interactions to form uniform multi-network, and also offering high modulus to the final hydrogel.
Accordingly, the as-prepared hydrogels showed simultaneous excellent compressive strength (up to 3.02 MPa at a strain of 70 %) and electrical conductivity (6.25 S m
The prediction of mechanical behavior and fatigue life is of major importance for design and for replacing costly and time-consuming tests.
The proposed approach for polymers is a combination of a fatigue model and a governing constitutive model, which is formulated using the Haward-Thackray viscoplastic model (1968) and is capable of capturing large deformations.
The fatigue model integrates high- and low-cycle fatigue and is based on the concept of damage evolution and a moving endurance surface in the stress space, therefore memorizing the load history without requesting vague cycle-counting approaches.
The proposed approach is applicable for materials in which the fatigue development is ductile, i.e., damage during the formation of microcracks controls most of the fatigue life (up to 90%).
Moreover, damage evolution shows a certain asymptote at the ultimate of the low-cycle fatigue, a second asymptote at the ultimate of the high-cycle fatigue (which is near zero), and a curvature of how rapidly the transition between the asymptotes is reached.
An interesting matter is that similar to metals, many polymers satisfy these constraints.
Therefore, all the model parameters for fatigue can be given in terms of the Basquin and Coffin-Manson model parameters, i.e., satisfying well-defined parameters.
DH36 high-strength steel is widely used in shipbuilding and other fields due to its excellent strength, low-temperature toughness, wear resistance, and corrosion resistance.
However, the harsh deep-sea environment seriously reduces the service life of welds.
In this study we subjected DH36 welded joints to laser shock peening at three different energy levels (5 J, 7 J, 9 J) to investigate its effects on microhardness, microstructure, high-cycle fatigue, and residual stress of the DH36 welded joints.
Results indicate that LSP can significantly enhance the surface microhardness of welded joints.
Notably, the 7 J energy treatment increased the weld zone microhardness from 195 HV
The carbon concentration and hardness of a part's surface can be enhanced through the carburizing-quenching process.
The mechanical properties are affected by the carbon concentration distribution in the surface layer, which directly determines wear resistance and fatigue life.
Carbon concentration distribution can be calculated using the FEA (Finite Element Analysis) method with an error no greater than 10% for the heat treatment engineer.
However, predicting the results using machine learning method is more efficient and easier.
In this paper, the carburizing numerical model is established for a 20Cr2Ni4A cylindrical part.
The microstructures and hardness gradient were tested to verify the accuracy of the simulation model for the furnace samples after the carburizing process.
By establishing an accurate numerical model of the carburizing process, multiple sets of process parameter combinations were designed for three different shapes: square, circle, and trapezoid.
Large-scale calculations were performed, resulting in a total of 530,226 sets of samples obtained.
Finally, a parameter adaptive BPNN (Backpropagation Neural Network) method based on mean shift clustering and slime mould algorithm is proposed for rapid prediction of carbon concentration distribution on the surface of parts after carburizing.
By comparing the prediction accuracy and training time with other methods, the feasibility and effectiveness of the method are verified.
In this study, an innovative synergistic strategy combining radiation-induced graft polymerization and the cyanohydroxylamine method was employed to successfully construct a polyacrylamide/polybutadiene/polyacrylonitrile-amidoxime (PAM/PB/PAO) double-network (DN) hydrogel toughened by nano-polybutadiene rubber.
Leveraging the DN topological design and rubber nano-phase reinforcement, this material exhibits exceptional fatigue performance (with a compressive stress retention rate of >90 % after 30 cycles of 80 % strain) and a high uranium adsorption capacity of 763.40 mg g
Composite materials, like metals, are subject to fatigue effects, representing one of the main causes for component collapse in carbon fiber-reinforced polymers.
Indeed, when subject to low stress cyclic loading, carbon fiber-reinforced polymers exhibit gradual degradation of the mechanical properties.
The numerical simulation of this phenomenon, which can strongly reduce time and costs to market, can be extremely expensive in terms of computational effort since a very high number of static analyses need to be run to take into account the real damage propagation due the fatigue effects.
In this paper, a novel cycle jump strategy, named Smart Cycle strategy, is introduced in the numerical model to avoid the simulation of every single cycle and save computational resources.
This cycle jump strategy can be seen as an enhancement of the empirical model proposed by Shokrieh and Lessard for the evaluation of the fatigue-induced strength and stiffness degradation.
Indeed, the Smart Cycle allows quickly obtaining a preliminary assessment of the fatigue behavior of composite structures.
It is based on the hypothesis that the stress redistribution, due to the fatigue-induced gradual degradation of the material properties, can be neglected until sudden fiber and/or matrix damage is verified at element/lamina level.
The numerical procedure has been implemented in the commercial finite element code ANSYS MECHANICAL, by means of Ansys Parametric Design Languages (APDL).
Briefly, the Smart Cycle routine is able to predict cycles where fatigue failure criteria are likely to be satisfied and to limit the numerical simulation to these cycles where a consistent damage propagation in terms of fiber and matrix breakage is expected.
The proposed numerical strategy was preliminarily validated, in the frame of this research study, on 30° fiber-oriented unidirectional coupons subjected to tensile-tensile fatigue loading conditions.
The numerical results were compared with literature experimental data in terms of number of cycles at failure for different percentage of the static strength.
Lastly, in order to assess its potential in terms of computational time saving on more complex structures and different loading conditions, the proposed numerical approach was used to investigate the fatigue behavior of a cross-ply open-hole composite panel under tension-tension fatigue loading conditions.
There is little information about the deflection fatigue of clasps in relation to stress distribution.
The aim of this study was to investigate the fatigue resistance and permanent deformation of cast clasps made of titanium and other dental alloys and to relate the fatigue resistance with the calculated stress values.
Twenty-five Ti-6Al-7Nb, 25 Co-Cr, and 15 Type IV gold alloy clasps were subjected to cyclic deflection of preset values of 0.25 mm, 0.50 mm, or 0.75 mm, for 10 6 cycles (n = 14).
Finite element models were created to calculate principal stresses within the specimens.
Fatigue life, retentive force, and permanent deformation were recorded, and the fracture locations were determined microscopically.
The results were characterized in relation to the stress within the clasps.
One-way analysis of variance and Tamhane's post-hoc tests were used to compare the results of the 9 material-deflection groups (alpha=.05).
Ti-6Al-7Nb clasps exhibited significantly less permanent deformation than the other clasps under relatively greater deflections, indicating better adaptation to the tooth surface.
However, the fatigue life of the Ti-6Al-7Nb clasps under 0.75-mm deflection, with the stress above the alloy's 0.2% yield strength, was significantly shorter than those under smaller deflections.
The gold clasps showed significantly longer fatigue life than the other clasps under the 0.50-mm deflection.
High-stress areas within the fatigue clasp specimens coincided with the fracture locations.
The probabilities of fatigue fracture and permanent deformation were closely related to the material strengths and the preset deflections.
To minimize fatigue failures, the cast clasp should be designed with consideration of the stresses distributions within the clasps.
Mechanical failure of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) bone cement is linked to failure of cemented total joint prostheses.
An essential step to minimize, if not eliminate, cement fracture is to understand the material characteristics controlling fracture resistance.
At least four phases of bone cement can be identified that may affect the damage zone formation: pre-polymerized beads, interbead matrix polymer, BaSO4, and porosity.
Gel permeation chromatography (GPC) was used to determine the molecular weight (MW) distributions of the two polymer phases.
Mechanical testing, scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy were used to analyse fracture mechanisms.
Fatigue crack propagation of bone cement was distinctly different from rapid crack propagation.
Microcracks defined the damage zone for fatigue fracture.
The microcracks developed in the interbead matrix and not through the pre-polymerized beads.
Light microscopy revealed evidence of craze formation on surfaces of fractured beads during rapid fracture, but not on fatigue surfaces.
GPC analysis indicated an increase in MW from the bead phase alone to the fully cured bone cement, indicating a greater MW in the interbead matrix polymer.
Increases of 36 and 176% were measured for two different bone cements, but the bulk of the polymer has an MW of less than 1 x 10(6).
Three factors were suggested to explain why the microcracks seem to prefer to grow in the interbead matrix: the presence of BaSO4, shrinkage during the curing process, and the different polymerization processes of the bead and the interbead polymers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prior to implantation, Nitinol-based transcatheter endovascular devices are subject to a complex thermo-mechanical pre-strain associated with constraint onto a delivery catheter, device sterilization, and final deployment.
Though such large thermo-mechanical excursions are known to impact the microstructural and mechanical properties of Nitinol, their effect on fatigue properties is still not well understood.
The present study investigated the effects of large thermo-mechanical pre-strains on the fatigue of pseudoelastic Nitinol wire using fully reversed rotary bend fatigue (RBF) experiments.
Electropolished Nitinol wires were subjected to a 0%, 8% or 10% bending pre-strain and RBF testing at 0.3-1.5% strain amplitudes for up to 10(8) cycles.
The imposition of 8% or 10% bending pre-strain resulted in residual set in the wire.
Large pre-strains also significantly reduced the fatigue life of Nitinol wires below 0.8% strain amplitude.
While 0% and 8% pre-strain wires exhibited distinct low-cycle and high-cycle fatigue regions, reaching run out at 10(8) cycles at 0.6% and 0.4% strain amplitude, respectively, 10% pre-strain wires continued to fracture at less than 10(5) cycles, even at 0.3% strain amplitude.
Furthermore, over 70% fatigue cracks were found to initiate on the compressive pre-strain surface in pre-strained wires.
In light of the texture-dependent tension-compression asymmetry in Nitinol, this reduction in fatigue life and preferential crack initiation in pre-strained wires is thought to be attributed to compressive pre-strain-induced plasticity and tensile residual stresses as well as the formation of martensite variants.
Despite differences in fatigue life, SEM revealed that the size, shape and morphology of the fatigue fracture surfaces were comparable across the pre-strain levels.
Further, the mechanisms underlying fatigue were found to be similar; despite large differences in cycles to failure across strain amplitudes and pre-strain levels, cracks initiated from surface inclusions in nearly all wires.
Compressive pre-strain-induced damage may accelerate such crack initiation, thereby reducing fatigue life.
The results of the present study indicate that large compressive pre-strains are detrimental to the fatigue properties of Nitinol, and, taken together, the findings underscore the importance of accounting for thermo-mechanical history in the design and testing of wire-based percutaneous implants.
This work develops a predictive model of S-N curves capable of proving the lower and upper bounds for fatigue behaviour of parts fabricated using different metal laser-based additive manufacturing (AM) and post-processing technologies.
Alongside the ultimate strength of the material and its endurance limit, a surface factor and a defect factor are incorporated in the model to consider the effects of the AM process induced defects on the S-N curves.
The model is correlated to comprehensive load-controlled fatigue experimental data from the literature for 316L stainless steel (SS) samples manufactured using metal laser-based AM technologies of various process and post-process conditions.
It was demonstrated that the proposed model can capture and represent the effects of the induced defects as well as the mean stress effect.
The value of the proposed model is that it can be integrated into existing industrial design workflows for fatigue assessment of AM 316L SS.
Furthermore, it has the potential to be extended to other AM materials.
Fifteen new photochromic hybrid materials were synthesized by gas phase loading of fluorinated azobenzenes, namely ortho-tetrafluoroazobenzene (tF-AZB), 4H,4H'-octafluoroazobenzene (oF-AZB), and perfluoroazobenzene (pF-AZB), into the pores of the well-known metal-organic frameworks MOF-5, MIL-53(Al), MIL-53(Ga), MIL-68(Ga), and MIL-68(In).
Their composition was analysed by elemental (CHNS) and DSC/TGA.
This article refers to the research article entitled "
Standards for the fatigue testing of wearable sensing technologies are lacking.
The majority of published fatigue tests for wearable sensors are performed on proof-of-concept stretch sensors fabricated from a variety of materials.
Due to their flexibility and stretchability, polymers are often used in the fabrication of wearable sensors.
Other materials, including textiles, carbon nanotubes, graphene, and conductive metals or inks, may be used in conjunction with polymers to fabricate wearable sensors.
Depending on the combination of the materials used, the fatigue behaviors of wearable sensors can vary.
Additionally, fatigue testing methodologies for the sensors also vary, with most tests focusing only on the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) regime, and few sensors are cycled until failure or runout are achieved.
Fatigue life predictions of wearable sensors are also lacking.
These issues make direct comparisons of wearable sensors difficult.
To facilitate direct comparisons of wearable sensors and to move proof-of-concept sensors from "bench to bedside", fatigue testing standards should be established.
Further, both high-cycle fatigue (HCF) and failure data are needed to determine the appropriateness in the use, modification, development, and validation of fatigue life prediction models and to further the understanding of how cracks initiate and propagate in wearable sensing technologies.
Hydrogel electrolytes are widely explored in Zn metal batteries for application in wearable electronics.
While extensive studies have been conducted on optimizing the chemical structure and boosting the tensile elasticity, the mechanical stability of the hydrogel under repeated deformation is largely overlooked, leading to unsatisfactory performance at large cycling capacity.
This work systematically analyzes the compressive fatigue-resistance properties of the hydrogel electrolyte, revealing the critical roles of the salt and copolymer matrix on crack initiation and propagation.
It shows that, on the premise of homogeneous Zn deposition, an improved anti-fatigue property is essential to achieve high-capacity Zn metal anodes.
The effects of surface passivation and electropolishing on the mechanical performance of a group of biomedical grade stainless steels have been investigated.
Surface roughness measurements showed that the treatments had a significant effect on the final surface finish.
However, static mechanical testing demonstrated no difference in static mechanical properties, regardless of surface treatment.
High cycle fatigue testing was carried out at a frequency of 120 Hz with a load ratio of R=0.1, in both air and a simulated in vivo wet corrosive environment. 316LVM (cold worked) proved superior to 316L (annealed) in fatigue performance, in both dry and wet environments.
The fatigue performance of both materials did depend on the surface treatment, with electropolishing resulting in better performance than passivation.
The fatigue performance of both materials was significantly better in the dry environment in comparison to the wet environment.
The dry-to-wet deterioration in fatigue performance was somewhat dependent on the surface treatment for the 316L material but almost independent of surface treatment for the 316LVM material. Significant surface pitting and damage was evident for 316L during fatigue in the wet environment, whereas almost no pitting and damage was observed for 316LVM.
A brief overview is given in this article on the main design philosophies and the resulting description concepts used for components which undergo monotonic and cyclic loading.
Emphasis is put on a mechanistic approach avoiding a plain reproduction of empirical laws.
After a short consideration of fracture as a result of monotonic loading using fracture mechanics basics, the phenomena taking place as a consequence of cyclic plasticity are introduced.
The development of fatigue damage is treated by introducing the physical processes which (i) are responsible for microstructural changes, (ii) lead to crack initiation and (iii) determine crack propagation.
From the current research topics within the area of metal fatigue, two aspects are dealt with in more detail because of their relevance to biomechanics.
The first one is the growth behaviour of microstructural short cracks, which controls cyclic life of smooth parts at low stress amplitudes.
The second issue addresses the question of the existence of a true fatigue limit and is of particular interest for components which must sustain a very high number of loading cycles (very high cycle fatigue).
The fatigue damage and fracture of metallic glasses (MGs) were reported to be dominated by shear band.
While there exist several reviews about the fatigue behavior of MGs, an overview that mainly focuses on shear bands under cyclic loading is urgent, and is of great importance for the understanding of fatigue mechanisms and properties.
In this review paper, based on the previous research results, the shear band evolution under cyclic loading including shear band formation, propagation and cracking, was summarized and elucidated.
Furthermore, one strategy of enhancing the fatigue property through manipulating the microstructure to suppress the shear band formation was proposed.
Additionally, the applications of the effect of annealing treatment and processing condition on fatigue behaviors were utilized to verify the strategy.
Finally, several future directions of fatigue research in MG were presented.
Fatigue damage in metals manifests itself as irreversible dislocation motion followed by crack initiation and propagation.
Characterizing the transition from a crack-free to a cracked metal remains one of the most challenging problems in fatigue.
Persistent slip bands (PSBs) form in metals during cyclic loading and are one of the most important aspects of this transition.
We used in situ microfatigue experiments to investigate PSB formation and evolution mechanisms, and we discovered that PSBs are prevalent at the micrometer scale.
Dislocation accumulation rates at this scale are smaller than those in bulk samples, which delays PSB nucleation.
Our results suggest the need to refine PSB and crack-initiation models in metals to account for gradual and heterogeneous evolution.
These findings also connect micrometer-scale deformation mechanisms with fatigue failure at the bulk scale in metals.
Electron beam irradiation at doses below 150 kGy is a widely used technique to obtain highly crosslinked ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE).
Its current use in total joint replacement components may improve wear resistance and decrease UHMWPE particle debris.
However, currently used post-irradiation thermal treatments, which aim to decrease the free radicals within the material, introduce microstructural changes that affect UHMWPE mechanical properties, particularly the fatigue strength.
This influence may be crucial in total knee replacements, where fatigue-related damage limits the lifespan of the prosthesis.
Therefore, more studies are required to understand UHMWPE fatigue after current crosslinking protocols.
This study was planned to evaluate the influence of UHMWPE remelting after irradiation on the material fatigue resistance.
The remelting was achieved at 150 degrees C for 2 h on UHMWPE previously irradiated at 50, 100, and 150 kGy.
Fatigue evaluation included short-term tests under cyclic tensile stress with zero load ratio, R = 0, and 1 Hz.
In addition, stress-life testing was performed using 12% yield as the criterion for failure.
Near-threshold fatigue crack propagation experiments were also performed at a frequency of 5 Hz, and crack length was measured in nonthermally treated and remelted irradiated UHMWPE.
Crystallinity percentage was calculated from DSC measurements.
The results pointed out that irradiation positively contributed to total life analysis, but the further remelting process decreased the flaw initiation resistance.
On the other hand, both processes negatively affected the fatigue resistance of notched components.
From a clinical point of view, the results suggest that the material fatigue behavior should be carefully studied in new UHMWPE to avoid changes related to material processing.
The effectiveness of the room-temperature strengthening strategy for aluminum (Al) is compromised at increased temperatures due to grain and precipitate phase coarsening.
Overcoming the heightened activity of grain boundaries and dislocations poses a significant challenge in enhancing the high-temperature strength through traditional precipitation strengthening.
This study presents novel strengthening strategies that integrate intergranular reinforcements, intragranular reinforcements, refined grain, and stacking faults within an (Al
Alumina-zirconia nano-composites were recently developed as alternative bearing materials for orthopedics.
Previous, preliminary reports show that such alumina-zirconia nanocomposites exhibit high crack resistance and low wear rate.
In this paper, additional information is given in terms of wear, crack resistance and ageing behaviour: femoral heads are inspected after 7 million cycles of wear testing on a hip simulator, crack resistance is measured and compared to other ceramics used today in orthopedics, slow crack growth is reported under static and cyclic fatigue, and aging resistance is assessed.
We also report on the load to failure of femoral heads prototypes during compression tests.
This overall reliability assessment ensures a potential future development for these kinds of new nanocomposites in the orthopedic field.
Stretchable electronic skins with multifunctional sensing capabilities are of great importance in smart healthcare, wearable display electronics, intelligent robots, and human-machine interfaces.
Thermoplastic elastomers play a pivotal role as soft substrate in the field of stretchable electronics.
However, the dynamic interactions of common thermoplastic elastomers often result in high hysteresis and fatigue damage, limiting their performance and durability.
In this study, a highly resilient and fatigue-resistant elastomer is developed by employing La
Yttria partially-stabilized zirconia polycrystalline (Y-TZP) has been the subject of extensive research because of its high strength and toughness.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the biaxial flexural strength, fatigue life, and to investigate in more detail on single cycle specimens, the pressure-induced phase transformation of a Y-TZP dental ceramic using Raman microspectroscopy.
Thirty standardized discs (15 x 1.2 mm(2)) were used to examine the biaxial flexural strength (ISO 6872 standard) using a Dartec HC10 Servohydraulic testing machine (Zwick Ltd., UK).
The specimens were also submitted to Vickers hardness (on polished and as-received surfaces within the same specimen) and dynamic fatigue test.
The initial bulk phases were examined via X-ray diffraction and the local phase transformations that occurred in the zirconia induced by the various Vickers indentation loads (20-50 kg) were examined via Raman microspectroscopy on single cycle specimens.
The fracture surface after biaxial flexural testing was also examined via Raman spectroscopy.
The Cercon specimens tested had flexural strength and Weibull modulus (m) of approximately 823.3 (+/-114.7) MPa and 8.3, respectively.
As-received surfaces (1378.7 +/- 51.8 Hv) had slightly higher hardness value compared with polished surfaces (1354.33 +/- 50.9 Hv); however, two-way analysis of variance showed no significant difference in hardness values between polished and as-received surfaces (P > 0.05).
Additionally, the specimens survived to 5 x 10(5) cycles when using a load of 70% of the mean biaxial flexural strength or lower.
Raman microspectroscopy showed transformation of tetragonal to cubic and monoclinic phases within the indentation area.
The fraction of monoclinic phase showed only limited variation with load or distance from the center to indentation edge.
The level of cubic phase, however, was greatest at the indentation center.
Transformation to cubic phase was observed on the lower surfaces (tension side) of fractured specimens.
It was also observed near the specimen center exposed upon fracture.
In the latter region an increase in monoclinic phase was additionally observed.
Further work will be carried out using Raman microspectroscopy to assess the effect of fatigue on phase transformations.
The zirconia based ceramic has mechanical properties that may allow it to withstand the loading found in posterior areas.
Transformation toughening was found when high loads impacted on the surface of zirconia.
However it should be born in mind that this work was not carried out on veneered specimens, which exhibit different failure modes.
The present investigation has employed recycled waste glass powder (WGP) and silicon nitride (Si
In this study, the effects of microstructural inclusions on fatigue life of polyether ether ketone (PEEK) was investigated.
Due to the versatility of its material properties, the semi-crystralline PEEK polymer has been increasingly adopted in a wide range of applications particularly as a biomaterial for orthopedic, trauma, and spinal implants.
To obtain the cyclic behavior of PEEK, uniaxial fully-reversed strain-controlled fatigue tests were conducted at ambient temperature and at 0.02 mm/mm to 0.04 mm/mm strain amplitudes.
The microstructure of PEEK was obtained using the optical and the scanning electron microscope (SEM) to determine the microstructural inclusion properties in PEEK specimen such as inclusion size, type, and nearest neighbor distance.
SEM analysis was also conducted on the fracture surface of fatigue specimens to observe microstructural inclusions that served as the crack incubation sites.
Based on the experimental strain-life results and the observed microstructure of fatigue specimens, a microstructure-sensitive fatigue model was used to predict the fatigue life of PEEK that includes both crack incubation and small crack growth regimes.
Results show that the employed model is applicable to capture microstructural effects on fatigue behavior of PEEK.
This study resolves the long-standing question of the origin of bilinear Low Cycle Fatigue (LCF) behavior in Ti-6Al-4V using a high-fidelity CPFEM-XFEM framework.
We identify that the fundamental origin lies in a fundamental shift in the efficiency of converting macroscopic energy dissipation into microscopic damage.
This energetic efficiency is directly governed by the evolution of plastic strain heterogeneity (quantified by the Coefficient of Variation, CV).
At low strain amplitudes, high strain localization (high CV) creates a highly efficient "energy funnel," concentrating dissipated energy into a few critical grains.
This manifests physically as a single-crack failure mode, where the crack initiation phase is prolonged, consuming ~80% of the total fatigue life.
Conversely, at high strain amplitudes, deformation homogenization (low CV) leads to inefficient, diffuse energy dissipation across many grains.
The material must therefore activate a more drastic failure mechanism-multi-site crack initiation and coalescence-to accumulate sufficient damage, reducing the initiation phase to just ~45% of the total life.
Therefore, the bilinear C-M curve is the macroscopic signature of this transition from an energetically efficient, localized damage mode to an inefficient, distributed one.
This work provides a quantitative, mechanism-based framework for understanding and predicting the complex fatigue behavior of advanced metallic materials.
The electron beam welding process is widely used in the connection among titanium alloy material parts of aero-engines.
Its mechanical properties need to meet the requirements of long life and high reliability.
In this paper, the static strength and the fatigue failure behavior of the electron beam weldments of TC17 titanium alloy were investigated experimentally under low amplitude high frequency (20 kHz), and the mechanical response and failure mechanism under different external loading conditions were analyzed.
In summary, the samples were found to have anisotropic microstructure.
The tensile strength of the PWHT of TC17 EBW joint was ~4.5% lower than that of the base metal. Meanwhile, compared with the base metal, the fatigue strength was reduced by 45.5% at 10
Hydrogel-based devices are widely used as flexible electronics, biosensors, soft robots, and intelligent human-machine interfaces.
In these applications, high stretchability, low hysteresis, and anti-fatigue fracture are essential but can be rarely met in the same hydrogels simultaneously.
Here, we demonstrate a hydrogel design using tandem-repeat proteins as the cross-linkers and random coiled polymers as the percolating network.
Such a design allows the polyprotein cross-linkers only to experience considerable forces at the fracture zone and unfold to prevent crack propagation.
Thus, we are able to decouple the hysteresis-toughness correlation and create hydrogels of high stretchability (~1100%), low hysteresis (< 5%), and high fracture toughness (~900 J m
In this study, using synchrotron radiation X-ray imaging, the microstructure, tensile properties, and fatigue properties of FGH96 nickel-based superalloy were tested, and the fatigue damage mechanism was analyzed.
An analysis of the experimental results shows that the alloy structure is dense without voids or other defects.
It was observed that the primary γ' phase is distributed on the grain boundary in a chain shape, and the secondary γ' phase is found inside the crystal grains.
The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern indicates that no other phases were seen except for the γ and γ' phases.
The tensile strength of the alloy is 1570 MPa and the elongation is 12.1%.
Using data fitting and calculation, it was found that the fatigue strength of the alloy under the condition of 5 × 10
Radioactive iodine isotopes from nuclear-related activities, present substantial risks to human health and the environment.
Developing effective materials for the capture and storage of these hazardous molecules is paramount.
Traditionally, nonporous solids were historically considered ineffective for adsorbing target species.
In this study, we investigate the potential of four nonporous, amorphous, self-assembled coordination cages (
Ni-rich NMCs (lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxides) have been extensively utilized as a type of cathode material for Li-ion batteries due to their high energy density and cost efficiency.
Meeting the increasing consumer demand for fast charging has become an urgent priority within the industry.
Studies on structural degradation caused by fast charging, however, remain limited, especially concerning the understanding of the inter-related failure phenomena and mechanisms.
In this study, our results reveal that prolonged fast-charge cycling of an NMC811 cathode leads to significant crack growth at both nano- and microscales.
The rapid propagation of cracks from the particle interior to the surface significantly accelerates electrolyte infiltration, leading to the formation of the cathode electrolyte interphase inside NMC811 particles.
A fatigue-cracking mechanism based on Li concentration gradients is proposed to be the root cause of crack formation.
Additionally, electron energy loss spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction analysis provide direct evidence of irreversible Li loss and layered structure distortion in the bulk material of fast-charged NMC811, which contributes to the significant capacity loss of the NMC811 cathode after fast-charge cycling.
The intragranular transition metal/Li cation mixing is also observed within the particle interior of fast-charged NMC811, which further deteriorates the material. This study offers valuable insights into the structural challenges encountered by Ni-rich NMC cathodes under fast-charge conditions, providing a foundational framework for designing strategies to enhance their structural integrity and electrochemical performance in demanding applications.
This study tested the effects of cross-linkage on the fatigue performance of posterior spinal constructs (i.e., AcroMed stainless steel Isola systems).
The failure modes encountered during fatigue were also examined.
The results of this study confirmed earlier findings that the use of cross-linkage does not significantly affect the stability of posterior constructs during axial loading.
Their influence in torsion loading is much more pronounced.
During the fatigue tests, posterior stainless steel spinal implants instrumented without cross-linkage reached 1 million cycles at 500- and 750-N loads.
When the load was increased to 1,000 N, the number of cycles to failure dropped by two-thirds.
These findings demonstrate that the endurance limit was between 750 N and 1,000 N for spinal constructs without cross-linkage, with the limit being closer to 750 N.
Devices equipped with one or two cross-linkages reached 1 million cycles at 500 N.
The number of cycles to failure dropped dramatically as the load was increased to 750 and 1,000 N.
It appears that the endurance limits for spinal devices using cross-linkage should be 500 and 750 N, with the limit closer to the 500-N load.
All rod fractures occurred near the junction between the longitudinal and transverse rods.
Stress concentration was greatly in the vicinity of that contact point.
These results should provide a basis for future improvement in endurance limits of spinal implants equipped with cross-linkage.
Higher endurance limits will reduce the toxic effects encountered during fracture modes.
The implants will also be better able to withstand the high physiologic loads experienced by obese individuals.
Additive manufacturing (AM), which is a process of building objects in a layer-upon-layer fashion from designed models, has received unprecedented attention from research and industry because it offers outstanding merits of flexibility, customization, reduced buy-to-fly ratio, and cost-effectiveness.
However, the fatigue performance of safety-critical industrial components fabricated by AM is still far below that obtained from conventional methods.
This review discusses the microstructural heterogeneities, randomly dispersed defects, poor surface quality, and complex residual stress generated during the AM process that can negatively impact the fatigue performance of as-printed parts.
The difference in microstructural origin of fatigue failure between conventionally manufactured and printed metals is reviewed with particular attention to the effects of the trans-scale microstructures on AM fatigue failure mechanisms.
Various methods for mitigating the fatigue issue, including pre-process, inter-process, and post-process treatments, are illustrated.
Empirical, semi-empirical, and microstructure-sensitive models are presented to predict fatigue strength and lifetime.
Summary and outlooks for future development of the fatigue performance of AM materials are provided.
The design of clinical trials allows for limited insights into the fatigue processes occurring in resin composites and the factors involved therein.
In vitro studies, in contrast, can fundamentally narrow study interests to focus on particular degradation mechanisms and, to date, represent the major contributors to the state of knowledge on the subject.
These studies show that microstructural features are important in determining strength and fracture toughness, whereas fatigue resistance is mainly related to the susceptibility of the matrix and the filler/matrix interface to mechanical and chemical degradation.
In this review, we focus on fracture mechanisms occurring during fatigue, on the methods used to assess them, and on additional phenomena involved in the degradation of initial mechanical properties of resin composites.
The effect of shot blasting treatment on the cyclic deformation and fracture behavior of a commercial pure titanium with two different microstructures; equiaxed (alpha-phase) and acicular (martensitic alpha'-phase) was investigated.
Fatigue tests were carried out in artificial saliva at 37 degrees C.
Cyclic deformation tests were carried out up to fracture and fatigue crack nucleation and propagation were analysed.
Residual stresses were determined by means of X-ray diffraction.
The results show that shot blasting treatment improves fatigue life in the different microstructures studied.
The equiaxed phase has improved mechanical properties compared to the acicular one.
Despite the fact that control of the variables of shot blasting is not precise because of the nature of the treatment, it improves the fatigue life by the fact that the initiation site of the fatigue crack changes from the surface of the specimen to the interior of the shot blasted specimen.
This is a consequence of the layer of compressive residual stresses that the treatment generates on titanium surfaces.
The acicular morphology of the martensite favors crack propagation along the interface of the alpha' plates.
Shot blasting, which is widely used on titanium dental implants in order to favour their osseointegration, can also improve their fatigue resistance.
Hydrogel sensors have broad application prospects in human motion monitoring and sweat composition detection.
However, hydrogel-based sensors are faced with challenges such as low accuracy and poor mechanical properties of analytes detection.
Based on mussel-inspired chemistry, we synthesized mesoporous silica@polydopamine-Au (MPS@PDA-Au) nanomaterials and designed a self-healing nanocomposite hydrogel to monitor human movement and ascorbic acid detection in sweat. Mesoporous silica (MPS) possess orderly mesoporous structure.
Dopamine (DA) polymerized on the surface of MPS to generate polydopamine (PDA), forming the composite material MPS@PDA-Au.
This composite was then embedded into polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) hydrogels through a simple freeze-thaw cycle process.
The hydrogels have achieved excellent deformable ability (508.6%), self-healing property (90.5%) and mechanical strength (2.9 MPa).
The PVA/MPS@PDA-Au hydrogel sensors had the characteristics of fast response time (123.2 ms), wide strain sensing range (0-500%), excellent fatigue resistance and stability in human detection.
The detection range of ascorbic acid (AA) in sweat was wide (8.0 μmol/L-100.0 μmol/L) and the detection limit was low (3.3 μmol/L).
Therefore, these hydrogel sensors have outstanding application prospects in human motion monitoring and sweat composition detection.
This article presents the results of experimental studies and numerical calculations that were conducted to analyse the phenomena that occur during the operation of an ingot mould that is designed for casting steel ingots.
The studies were conducted on an experimental stand in a foundry on an ingot mould that was designed to make ingots that weigh up to six tons; they consisted of determining the temperature of the ingot mould and measuring the displacements of its walls during filling with steel and cooling.
These studies were used to create and verify a numerical model that was used to determine the temperatures, displacements, deformations, and stresses in ingot mould walls during the operating cycle using the FEM method.
Microstructure studies of ingot cast iron that was subjected to thermal fatigue were also conducted on a laboratory stand; the temperature changes and test times were the same as those used under the normal operating conditions of the ingot mould.
Cast iron samples were subjected to heating and cooling cycles within a range of 0 to 60 cycles; then, tensile tests were performed to determine their stress-strain curves.
As a result of the conducted tests, a great influence was found of the number of cycles on decreases in the values of the modulus of elasticity and tensile strength-especially within a range of 0 to 10 cycles.
A relationship was also found between the changes in these values and the image of the cast iron microstructure.
Based on images of the cast iron microstructure after being subjected to different numbers of thermal fatigue cycles, the mechanism of the crack initiation and propagation was determined.
The influence of the changes in the strength of the cast iron and the stress state that was determined by the FEM method on the durability of the tested type of ingot mould was analysed.
The obtained research results will be useful for introducing design changes that are aimed at increasing the fatigue durability of ingot moulds.
This study explores the fatigue behavior and fracture mechanisms of TC11 titanium alloy formed by laser metal deposition (LMD) and subjected to double annealing.
The research focuses on how the alloy's unique microstructure, consisting of alternating equiaxed and columnar crystals, influences its fatigue performance.
The microstructure's basket-like α' phase, made up of both plate-shaped and needle-like structures, leads to variations in crack growth behavior, as shown in the relationship between the crack growth rate and the stress intensity.
An analysis of slip patterns reveals that equiaxed crystals undergo more frequent deformation, accelerating crack propagation compared to the more evenly distributed deformation in columnar crystals.
These findings suggest a new approach for improving the fatigue resistance of 3D-printed titanium alloys by optimizing their microstructure.
This study provides valuable insights for enhancing material toughness and extending the lifespan of titanium alloys in applications such as aerospace and biomedical engineering.
To define surface, mechanical, microstructural and metallurgical features of conventional One-Shape (OShape) and heat-treated OneCurve (OCurve) nickel-titanium instruments.
Instruments were analysed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) on new instruments and after simulated clinical use (SCU).
Cyclic fatigue testing was performed and the number of cycles to fracture (NCF) and the length of the fractured instruments were measured (Mann-Whitney test).
Fractured instruments during cyclic fatigue testing were then inspected by SEM fractographic analysis.
Field emission gun scanning scanning electron microscopy (FEG-SEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) and micro-Raman spectroscopy were used to assess alloy surface chemistry.
Focused ion beam (FIB) was performed to analyse the oxide layer on the surface of OCurve before and after SCU.
X-Ray diffraction (XRD), metallographic evaluation and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) were used to determine martensitic/austenitic phase transformation temperatures.
SEM observations on new instruments revealed a smooth regular surface with flattened milling grooves.
No wear features were detected after SCU.
OCurve exhibited a higher cyclic fatigue resistance (P<0.05), slower crack propagation and a surface layer of TiO2.
Metallographic analysis and XRD showed the prevalence of martensitic grains on OCurve instruments that were stable at body temperature as confirmed by DSC analysis.
Furthermore, DSC demonstrated a shift in the temperature transformation ranges suggesting an increase of martensite phase in autoclaved OCurve instruments.
Heat treatment processes were confirmed as a valid enhancement of the properties of the new generation NiTi instruments.
OCurve presented a significant improvement over OShape regarding both mechanical and metallurgical characteristics.
Ultra-thick offshore steel, known for its high strength, high toughness, and corrosion resistance, is commonly used in marine platforms and ship components.
However, when offshore steel is in service for an extended period under conditions of high pressure, extreme cold, and high-frequency impact loads, the weld joints are prone to fatigue failure or even fractures.
Addressing these issues, this study designed a narrow-gap laser wire filling welding process and successfully welded a 100-mm new type of ultra-thick offshore steel.
Using finite element simulation, EBSD testing, SEM analysis, and impact experiments, this study investigates the weld's microstructure, impact toughness, and fracture mechanisms.
The research found that at -80 °C, the welded joint exhibited good impact toughness (>80 J), with the impact absorption energy on the surface of the weld being 217.7 J, similar to that of the base material (225.3 J), and the fracture mechanism was primarily a ductile fracture.
The impact absorption energy in the core of the weld was 103.7 J, with the fracture mechanism mainly being a brittle fracture.
The EBSD results indicated that due to the influence of the welding thermal cycle and the cooling effect of the narrow-gap process, the grains gradually coarsened from the surface of the welded plate to the core of the weld, which was the main reason for the decreased impact toughness at the joint core.
This study demonstrates the feasibility of using narrow-gap laser wire filling welding for 100-mm new type ultra-thick offshore steel and provides a new approach for the joining of ultra-thick steel plates.
Porosity in sintered materials negatively affects its fatigue properties.
In investigating its influence, the application of numerical simulations reduces experimental testing, but they are computationally very expensive.
In this work, the application of a relatively simple numerical phase-field (PF) model for fatigue fracture is proposed for estimation of the fatigue life of sintered steels by analysis of microcrack evolution.
A model for brittle fracture and a new cycle skipping algorithm are used to reduce computational costs.
A multiphase sintered steel, consisting of bainite and ferrite, is examined.
Detailed finite element models of the microstructure are generated from high-resolution metallography images.
Microstructural elastic material parameters are obtained using instrumented indentation, while fracture model parameters are estimated from experimental S-N curves.
Numerical results obtained for monotonous and fatigue fracture are compared with data from experimental measurements.
The proposed methodology is able to capture some important fracture phenomena in the considered material, such as the initiation of the first damage in the microstructure, the forming of larger cracks at the macroscopic level, and the total life in a high cycle fatigue regime.
However, due to the adopted simplifications, the model is not suitable for predicting accurate and realistic crack patterns of microcracks.
A bespoke TMF crack growth test set-up has been developed and validated for use throughout this study and the effects of phasing between mechanical loading and temperature have been investigated.
The study shows that TMF cycles may show increased crack growth rate behaviour when compared to isothermal fatigue.
The phase angle of the applied TMF cycle can also affect crack growth behaviour, with in-phase (IP) test conditions showing faster crack growth rates than out-of-phase (OP) test conditions.
Propagating cracks interact with the microstructure of the material, in particular, the α/β interfaces within the prior beta grains and supporting fractography evidences subtle differences in fracture mechanisms as a result of phase angle.
Additively manufactured biodegradable zinc (Zn) alloy scaffolds constitute an important branch in orthopedic implants because of their moderate degradation behavior and bone-mimicking mechanical properties.
This work investigated the corrosion fatigue response of a zinc-magnesium (Zn-Mg) alloy gyroid scaffold fabricated via laser-powder-bed-fusion additive manufacturing at the first time.
The high-cycle compression-compression fatigue testing of the printed Zn-Mg scaffold was conducted in simulated body fluid, showing its favorable fatigue strength, structural reliability, and anti-fatigue capability.
The printed Zn-Mg scaffold obtained a 227% higher fatigue strength than that of the printed Zn scaffold but 17% lower strain accumulation at 10
Characterizing the fatigue behavior of cantilevered implant-supported prostheses requires an understanding of both the material and its intended application.
The relationships between applied load, component geometry, and the fatigue characteristics of a specific material often can be difficult to establish.
Four different cross-sectional designs of cantilevered frameworks used clinically were tested for fatigue durability, and the results were compared with theoretical tip deflections and stresses.
Fatigue tests were conducted on specimens with I-, U-, and L-shaped and elliptical cross-sections after static stress analysis.
Specimens with uniform cantilevered length were sprued, invested and cast from the same high-palladium alloy.
Statistical results, SEM evaluation of fracture surfaces, and theoretical predictions provided further insight into the framework design.
Based on intraoral space restrictions, corrections for dimensional changes inherent in casting, the mean number of cycles to failure for each cross-sectional geometry, and the performance of design groups as predicted by static analysis can be ranked in order from best to worst as I, L, U, and then elliptical. SEM evaluation showed varying degrees of porosity and shrinkage cavities specific to the specimen cross-sections.
Four designs for the cantilevered sections of implant-supported frameworks were evaluated for fatigue durability and were compared with the results of the theoretical analysis.
As tested, fatigue durability was predictable when compared with theoretical calculations of tip deflection and normal stress.
Although all four shapes have considerable merit for rigidity, in limited intermaxillary conditions, the I- and L-shaped cross-sections may optimize performance and use of space.
This study investigates the low-cycle fatigue behavior and microstructural evolution of a novel 30Cr2Ni3MoWV hot-work die steel at 700 °C under different strain amplitudes.
High-temperature tensile tests demonstrated a tensile strength of 460 MPa and an elongation of 32%, confirming the material retains good ductility.
Fracture analysis revealed ductile failure, supported by a 95% reduction in area.
Low-cycle fatigue tests indicated notable cyclic softening at high strain amplitudes, with fatigue life declining rapidly as strain amplitude rose from 0.2% to 0.6%.
A stress-softening coefficient model was established to describe this accelerated softening.
Microstructural examination identified carbides (MC, M
The aim of this study was to compare the integrity of zirconia, lithium disilicate, and zirconia-reinforced lithium silicate CAD-CAM crowns after being subjected to cyclic loading and then subjected to static loading until fracture.
Zirconia (Zirkonzahn), lithium disilicate (LDS, Ivoclar Vivadent AG), and zirconia-reinforced lithium silicate glass ceramic (ZLS) (Vita Suprinity, Vita Zahnfabrik) monolithic crowns were milled (n = 6).
The crowns were bonded using composite resin cements and subjected to cyclic loading under wet conditions.
Three specimens from each group were loaded for 10 000 cycles, and the other three specimens were loaded for 50 000 cycles with 250 N.
Specimens were subjected to loading until fracture.
Load-to-fracture values were analyzed with 2-way (ANOVA) and Tukey-Kramer post hoc test (α = 0.05).
Specimens from each group were examined using an SEM.
Mean load-to-fracture values among materials were significantly different from each other (P < 0.05).
No significant effect of the number of cycles was found on the load-to-fracture values of crowns (P > 0.05).
Load-to-fracture values of zirconia were higher than those of LDS, which were higher than those of ZLS.
The number of fatigue loading cycles did not affect the load-to-fracture of the tested crowns for a given material. More research needs to be conducted before considering the routine use of ZLS for molars in patients with high risk of parafunctional habits.
Continuous and interrupted low cycle fatigue tests were conducted on nuclear-grade S30408 stainless steel under different stress conditions at room temperature.
Vickers hardness testing and microstructure characterization were performed on the fatigue samples with different fatigue states.
The evolutionary mechanism of the microstructure defects in materials under fatigue cyclic loading was discussed.
The traditional Basquin formula was used to predict the fatigue life of these fatigue samples.
At the same time, a quantitative mechanical model related to the characteristic micro-defects parameter KAM and the Vickers hardness (H
The aim of the study was to assess the effect of bulk material on the reliability and failure modes of narrow-diameter implants.
Narrow implants (Ø3.5 × 10 mm - 11° internal conical connection) were manufactured from three different bulk materials: commercially pure titanium grade-IV (CP4), cold-worked titanium (CW), and 4Titude (4Ti), and were evaluated under fatigue testing.
Eighteen samples per group were tested under step-stress accelerated life testing through 30° off-axis load application in mild, moderate, and aggressive loading profiles.
The number of cycles and load at failure were used to calculate use-level probability curves and reliability for missions of 100,000 cycles up to 200 N, followed by fractographic analyses.
Beta values suggested that damage accumulation dictated failures.
Reliability analyses at 80, 120, and 150 N evidenced high reliability for narrow implants independent of bulk material. At 200 N, a decrease in reliability was observed for all groups (∼46%).
Failure mode analysis depicted similar failures for all groups and comprised implant fracture, abutment fracture, and implant + abutment fractures.
Narrow implants presented high reliability for physiologic masticatory forces in the anterior region.
Characteristic strength, reliability, and failure modes were similar regardless of bulk material, suggesting that fatigue damage accumulation at thin wall implants dictated failure over bulk material strength.
Because wire fixation continues to be used extensively in the practice of orthopaedic surgery, despite a high incidence of wire breakage, understanding the mechanism of this failure is of important clinical interest.
The aim of this study was to investigate the failure of cerclage stainless steel wire using an in vitro cyclic loading device.
A stainless steel testing fixture consisting of two half cylinders with a combined diameter of 2.5 cm was mounted in a servo hydraulic testing machine.
Specimens of number 18 gauge (0.97 mm diameter) and number 16 gauge (1.22 mm diameter) 316L stainless steel wire were mounted around the two half cylinders in a cerclage manner using three different fastening methods: a uniform symmetrical twist, a knot twist, and a square knot.
Single-load-to-failure and cyclic load tests were performed under controlled tensile displacement.
The cerclage wire system fastened with a twist resulted in failure at loads significantly lower than systems fastened with the knot twist and the square knot.
Cyclic loading of the wire fastened with twists also showed decreased fatigue properties when compared to those fastened with the knot twist and the square knot.
In all tests, the 16-gauge wire was found to be clearly superior to the 18-gauge wire.
For both wires, fatigue strengths at 100,000 cycles were only 30-37% of the static ultimate strength.
These results show that wire diameter and fastening system are two important factors affecting the mechanical properties of the resulting fixation.
Affected by the service environment, the actual service conditions of rail steel are complex, and the safety evaluation methods are limited.
In this study, the fatigue crack propagation in the U71MnG rail steel crack tip was analysed by means of the DIC method, focusing on the shielding effect of the plastic zone at the crack tip.
The crack propagation in the steel was analysed based on a microstructural approach.
The results show that the maximum value of stress of the wheel-rail static contact and rolling contact is in the subsurface of the rail.
The test grain size of the material selected along the L-T direction is smaller than that in the L-S one.
Within a unit distance, if the grain size is smaller, the number of grains or grain boundaries will be greater so that the driving force required for a crack to pass through the grain boundary barriers will be larger.
The Christopher-James-Patterson (CJP) model can well describe the contour of the plastic zone and can well characterize the influence of crack tip compatible stress and the crack closure effect on crack propagation under different stress ratios.
The crack growth rate curve at the high-stress ratio is shifted to the left relative to the low-stress ratio, and the crack growth rate curves obtained under different sampling methods have good normalization.
The high cycle fatigue strength of porous coated Ti-6A1-4V is approximately 75% less than the fatigue strength of uncoated Ti-6A1-4V.
This study separates the effects of three parameters thought to be responsible for this reduction: interfacial geometry, microstructure, and surface alterations brought about by sintering.
To achieve the goal of one parameter variations, hydrogen-alloying treatments, which refined the lamellar microstructure of beta-annealed and porous coated Ti-6A1-4V, were formulated.
The fatigue strength of smooth-surfaced Ti-6A1-4V subjected to hydrogen-alloying treatments is 643-669 MPa, significantly greater than the fatigue strength of beta-annealed Ti-6A1-4V (497 MPa) and also greater than the fatigue strength of pre-annealed, equiaxed Ti-6A1-4V (590 MPa).
The fatigue strength of porous coated Ti-6A1-4V, however, is independent of microstructure.
This leads to the conclusion that the notch effect of the surface porosity does not allow the material to take advantage of the superior fatigue crack initiation resistance of a refined alpha-grain size.
Thus, sinternecks acts as initiated microcracks and fatigue of porous coated Ti-6A1-4V is propagation controlled.
The out-of-phase thermo-mechanical fatigue (TMF) behavior of the two Al-Si cast alloys most widely used for engine applications (319 and 356) were investigated under temperature cycling (60-300 °C) and various strain amplitudes (0.1-0.6%).
The relationship between the microstructural evolution and TMF behavior was closely studied.
Both alloys exhibited asymmetric hysteresis loops with a higher portion in the tensile mode during TMF cycling.
The two alloys showed cyclic softening behavior with regard to the maximum stress, but an earlier inflection of cyclic stress was found in the 356 alloy.
The TMF lifetime of the 319 alloy was generally longer than that of the 356 alloy, especially at higher strain amplitudes.
All the precipitates (β'-MgSi in 356 and θ'-Al
Fatigue of CoCr alloy stents has become a major concern in recent times, owing to cases of premature fracture, often driven by microstructural phenomena.
This work presents the development of a micromechanical framework for fatigue design, based on experimental characterisation of a biomedical grade CoCr alloy, including both microscopy and mechanical testing.
Fatigue indicator parameters (FIPs) within the micromechanical framework are calibrated for the prediction of microstructure-sensitive fatigue crack initiation (FCI).
A multi-scale CoCr stent model is developed, including a 3D global J2 continuum stent-artery model and a 2D micromechanical sub-model.
Several microstructure realizations for the stent sub-model allow assessment of the effect of crystallographic orientations on stent fatigue crack initiation predictions.
Predictions of FCI are compared with traditional Basquin-Goodman total life predictions, revealing more realistic scatter of data for the microstructure-based FIP approach.
Comparison of stent predictions with performance of a 316L stent for the same generic design exposes the design as over-conservative for the CoCr alloy.
In response, the micromechanical framework is used to modify the stent design for the CoCr alloy, improving design efficiency.
This paper summarizes the NIMS fatigue data sheets and makes a new gateway available to access them.
The NIMS fatigue data sheets are a huge database of the fatigue properties of structural materials.
This project covers fundamental fatigue properties at room temperature and at high temperatures, and the fatigue properties of welded joints.
The fundamental fatigue properties recorded include high-cycle, low-cycle and gigacycle fatigue test results for steels, aluminium alloys, titanium alloys and so on.
The high-cycle fatigue test results determine the fatigue limits.
The low-cycle fatigue test results reveal not only the fatigue lives but also cyclic stress-strain curves.
The gigacycle fatigue tests were conducted at 100 Hz for three years up to 10
Dental implants need to combine mechanical strength with promoted osseointegration.
Currently used subtractive manufacturing techniques require a multi-step process to obtain a rough surface topography that stimulates osseointegration.
Advantageously, additive manufacturing (AM) enables direct implant shaping with unique geometries and surface topographies.
In this study, zirconia implants with integrated lamellar surface topography were additively manufactured by nano-particle ink-jetting.
The ISO-14801 fracture load of as-sintered implants (516±39 N) resisted fatigue in 5-55 °C water thermo-cycling (631±134 N).
Remarkably, simultaneous mechanical fatigue and hydrothermal aging at 90 °C significantly increased the implant strength to 909±280 N due to compressive stress generated at the seamless transition of the 30-40 µm thick, rough and porous surface layer to the dense implant core.
This unique surface structure induced an elongated osteoblast morphology with uniform cell orientation and allowed for osteoblast proliferation, long-term attachment and matrix mineralization.
In conclusion, the developed AM zirconia implants not only provided high long-term mechanical resistance thanks to the dense core along with compressive stress induced at the transition zone, but also generated a favorable osteoblast response owing to the integrated directional surface pores.
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Zirconia ceramics are becoming the material of choice for metal-free dental implants, however significant efforts are required to obtain a rough/porous surface for enhanced osseointegration, along with the risk of surface delamination and/or microstructure variation.
In this study, we addressed the challenge by additively manufacturing implants that seamlessly combine dense core with a porous surface layer.
For the first time, a unique surface with a directional lamellar pore morphology was additively obtained.
This AM implant also provided strength as strong as conventionally manufactured zirconia implants before and after long-term fatigue.
Favorable osteoblast response was proved by in-vitro cell investigation.
This work demonstrated the opportunity to AM fabricate novel ceramic implants that can simultaneously meet the mechanical and biological functionality requirements.
High lead-tin bronze is widely used in the selection of wear-resistant parts such as bearings, bearing bushes, aerospace pump rotors, turbines, and guide plates because of its excellent wear resistance, thermal conductivity, fatigue resistance, and strong load-bearing capacity.
At present, high lead-tin bronze is used as a material for bimetal cylinders, which cannot meet the requirements of high-strength, anti-wear in actual working conditions under high temperature, high speed, and heavy load conditions, and is prone to de-cylinder, cylinder holding, copper sticking, etc.
The reason for the failure of cylinder body parts is that the strength of copper alloy materials is insufficient, the proportion of lead in the structure is serious, and the wear resistance of the material is reduced.
Therefore, it has important theoretical significance and application value to carry out research on the comprehensive properties of high-performance lead-tin bronze materials and reveal the strengthening and toughening mechanism.
In this paper, The ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy is taken as the main research object, and the particle size, microstructure, mechanical properties, and friction of lead particles in ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy are systematically studied after single addition of B in ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy liquid.
This paper takes ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy as the research object to study the effect of adding B on the morphology, microstructure, mechanical properties, and friction and wear properties of ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy lead particles, and discusses the strengthening and toughening mechanism of ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy under the action of B, and prepares a double high-performance lead-tin bronze alloy for metal cylinders.
The main research results are as follows: The addition of B elements has an obvious refining effect on the α (Cu) equiaxed grains and lead particles in ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy.
The average size of lead particles decreases from 30.0 µm to 24.8 µm as the B content increases from 0 wt.% to 0.1 wt.%.
The reason for grain refinement is that B is easily concentrated at the grain boundary during the ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy solidification process, which affects the diffusion of solute atoms at the solidification interface, inhibits the grain growth, refines the grain, and hinders the sinking and homogenizes distribution between dendrites of lead; the tensile strength of the ZCuPb20Sn5 alloy improves.
Relatively without B, when the addition of P is 0.1 wt.%, the tensile strength is the largest at 244.04 MPa, which enhances 13%; the maximum hardness gets 75.0 HB, which enhances 13.6%, as well as elongation get the maximum value at 17.2%.
The main mechanism is that the addition of B forms a high melting point submicron Ni
Elastocaloric cooling, a solid-state cooling technology, exploits the latent heat released and absorbed by stress-induced phase transformations.
Hysteresis associated with transformation, however, is detrimental to efficient energy conversion and functional durability.
We have created thermodynamically efficient, low-hysteresis elastocaloric cooling materials by means of additive manufacturing of nickel-titanium.
The use of a localized molten environment and near-eutectic mixing of elemental powders has led to the formation of nanocomposite microstructures composed of a nickel-rich intermetallic compound interspersed among a binary alloy matrix.
The microstructure allowed extremely small hysteresis in quasi-linear stress-strain behaviors-enhancing the materials efficiency by a factor of four to seven-and repeatable elastocaloric performance over 1 million cycles.
Implementing additive manufacturing to elastocaloric cooling materials enables distinct microstructure control of high-performance metallic refrigerants with long fatigue life.
The ferroelectricity in nanoscale HfO
In this paper, the low-cycle fatigue deformation behavior of polycrystalline γ-TiAl alloys at different temperatures was investigated by molecular dynamics simulations.
The results showed that the fatigue process comprises an initial cyclic softening stage followed by saturation, and the stress-strain response of the material shows significant asymmetry.
With an increase in temperature, the asymmetry between tensile and compressive stresses gradually decreases, and the amplitude of saturated stress decreases significantly.
The decrease in dislocation density leads to the cyclic softening of the alloy, and the evolution of dislocation density is temperature-dependent.
The dislocation density first decreases and then tends to be stable, while at 900 °C and 1000 °C, it shows an abnormal trend of decreasing first and then increasing.
In addition, microscopic mechanism analysis shows that grain coarsening, dislocation annihilation, and phase instability lead to the cyclic softening of the alloys.
The fatigue plastic accumulation at low temperatures is mainly dominated by dislocation slip, while at high temperatures, grain boundary slip gradually replaces dislocation slip and becomes the main deformation mechanism.
This work reveals new insights into the mechanical behavior of polycrystalline γ-TiAl alloys under cyclic plasticity and temperature-dependent deformation mechanisms.
As a newly developed gun barrel steel, the novel steel has shown excellent high-temperature strength, high resistance to wear and erosion, contributing to the superior ballistic life of gun barrels.
As ballistic life increases, the fatigue life becomes essential for the safety and reliability of gun barrels.
This paper presents a comparison of the low cycle fatigue (LCF) behaviors between a novel steel and 30SiMn2MoV steel at 700 °C.
A strain-controlled fatigue test was carried out on the novel steel and 30SiMn2MoV steel in the strain range from 0.2 to 0.6%.
The cyclic stress response behaviors of the novel steel and 30SiMn2MoV steel show cyclic softening behavior.
In addition, the shape of the hysteresis rings of the novel steel and 30SiMn2MoV steel exhibit no-Masing model behavior.
Energy-life relationships results show that the novel steel has higher fatigue resistance than the 30SiMn2MoV steel at 700 °C.
The results of fatigue fracture analysis show that the failure mode of the 30SiMn2MoV steel is a mixed mode of intergranular fracture and transgranular fracture, while the failure mode of the novel steel is intergranular fracture.
The cyclic softening of the two materials can be attributed to the lath structure with a high density of dislocations gradually transforms into low energy subcrystalline and cellular structures at 700 °C.
The novel steel has a better fatigue life than the 30SiMn2MoV steel at 700 °C and different strain amplitudes, which is mainly related to the carbides and lath martensite in the materials.
Fatigue behavior of nanomaterials could ultimately limit their applications in variable nano-devices and flexible nanoelectronics.
However, very few existing nanoscale mechanical testing instruments were designed for dedicated fatigue experiments, especially for the challenging torsional cyclic loading.
In this work, a novel high-cycle torsion straining micromachine, based on the digital micromirror device (DMD), has been developed for the torsional fatigue study on various one-dimensional (1D) nanostructures, such as metallic and semiconductor nanowires.
Due to the small footprint of the DMD chip itself and its cable-remote controlling mechanisms, it can be further used for the desired
Addressing the limitations of traditional fatigue life prediction methods, which rely on extensive experimental data and incur high costs, and given the current absence of studies that employ deformation inhomogeneity parameters to construct fatigue-indicator parameter (FIP) for predicting low-cycle fatigue (LCF) life of metals in hydrogen environments, this study firstly explores how hydrogen pre-charging influences the LCF behavior of hot-rolled ribbed bar grade 400 (HRB400) steel via experimental and crystal plasticity simulation, and focus on the relationship between the fatigue life and the evolution of microscale deformation inhomogeneity.
The experimental results indicate that hydrogen charging causes alterations in cyclic hysteresis, an expansion of the elastic range of the stabilized hysteresis loop, and a significant reduction in LCF life.
Secondly, a novel FIP was developed within the crystal plasticity finite element method (CPFEM) framework to predict the LCF life of HRB400 steel under hydrogen influence.
This FIP incorporates three internal variables: hydrogen embrittlement index, axial strain variation coefficient, and macroscopic stress ratio.
These variables collectively account for the hydrogen charging effects and stress peak impacts on the microscale deformation inhomogeneity.
The LCF life of hydrogen-charged HRB400 steel can be predicted using this new FIP.
We performed fatigue testing under only one loading condition to measure the corresponding fatigue life and determine the FIP critical value.
This helped predict fatigue life under different cyclic loading conditions for the same hydrogen-charged material. We compared the experimental data to validate the novel FIP to accurately predict the LCF life of hydrogen-charged HRB400 steel.
The error between the predicted results and the measured results is limited to a factor of two.
Composites of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) of varied functionality (unfunctionalised and carboxyl and amine functionalised) with polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) were prepared for use as a bone cement.
The MWCNT loadings ranged from 0.1 to 1.0 wt.%.
The fatigue properties of these MWCNT-PMMA bone cements were characterised at MWCNT loading levels of 0.1 and 0.25 wt.% with the type and wt.% loading of MWCNT used having a strong influence on the number of cycles to failure.
The morphology and degree of dispersion of the MWCNT in the PMMA matrix at different length scales were examined using field emission scanning electron microscopy.
Improvements in the fatigue properties were attributed to the MWCNT arresting/retarding crack propagation through the cement through a bridging effect and hindering crack propagation.
MWCNT agglomerates were evident within the cement microstructure and the degree of agglomeration was dependent on the level of loading and functionality of the MWCNT.
The biocompatibility of the MWCNT-PMMA cements at MWCNT loading levels upto 1.0 wt.% was determined by means of established biological cell culture assays using MG-63 cells.
Cell attachment after 4h was determined using the crystal violet staining assay.
Cell viability was determined over 7 days in vitro using the standard colorimetric MTT assay.
Confocal scanning laser microscopy and SEM analysis was also used to assess cell morphology on the various substrates.
High entropy alloys (HEAs) are new class of metallic materials with five or more principal alloying elements.
Due to this distinct concept of alloying, the HEAs exhibit unique properties compared to conventional alloys.
The outstanding properties of HEAs include increased strength, superior wear resistance, high temperature stability, increased fatigue properties, good corrosion, and oxidation resistance.
Such characteristics of HEAs have generated significant interest among the scientific community.
However, their applications are yet to be explored.
This paper discusses the mechanical behavior and microstructure of Al
Ti-6Al-4V hour-glass shaped rotating beam specimens with duplex microstructure were processed by electric discharge machining (EDM).
A comparatively high peak current of 29A was utilized in order to increase surface roughness for improved osteointegration.
High cycle fatigue (HCF) tests were performed in rotating beam loading (R=-1) on these EDM specimens and results were compared with electrolytically polished specimens serving as reference.
As expected, the HCF performance of EDM specimens was inferior to the electrolytically polished specimens.
A detailed study of fatigue crack nucleation and microcrack growth was carried out on failed specimens by SEM.
The poor HCF strength of EDM specimens is explained by early crack nucleation due to the high notch sensitivity of Ti-6Al-4V.
In addition, process-induced residual tensile stresses and microstructural effects may also account for the drastic loss in HCF performance relative to the electropolished baseline.
In this survey, the origin of fatigue crack initiation and damage evolution in different metallic materials is discussed with emphasis on the responsible microstructural mechanisms.
After a historical introduction, the stages of cyclic deformation which precede the onset of fatigue damage are reviewed.
Different types of cyclic slip irreversibilities in the bulk that eventually lead to the initiation of fatigue cracks are discussed.
Examples of trans- and intercrystalline fatigue damage evolution in the low cycle, high cycle and ultrahigh cycle fatigue regimes in mono- and polycrystalline face-centred cubic and body-centred cubic metals and alloys and in different engineering materials are presented, and some microstructural models of fatigue crack initiation and early crack growth are discussed.
The basic difficulties in defining the transition from the initiation to the growth of fatigue cracks are emphasized.
In ultrahigh cycle fatigue at very low loading amplitudes, the initiation of fatigue cracks generally occupies a major fraction of fatigue life and is hence life controlling.
In this paper, the fatigue crack growth behavior of the base metal (BM), the weld metal (WM) and the heat-affected zone (HAZ) in the metal-inert gas (MIG) welded joints of the 06Cr19Ni10 stainless steel are analyzed and studied.
Results of the fatigue crack propagation tests show that a new fatigue crack initiates at the crack tip of a pre-existing crack, then propagates perpendicular to the direction of cyclic fatigue loads.
This observation indicates that the original mixed-mode crack transforms into the mode I crack.
The WM specimen has the largest fatigue crack growth rate, followed by the HAZ specimen and the BM specimen.
To illustrate the differences in fatigue crack growth behavior of the three different types of specimens, metallographic structure, fracture morphology and residual stresses of the BM, HAZ and WM are investigated and discussed.
The metallographic observations indicate that the mean grain size of the HAZ is relatively larger than that of the BM.
The fractographic analysis shows that the WM has the largest fatigue striation width, followed by the HAZ and the BM.
It is also found that the depth of dimple in the WM is relatively shallower than the one in the HAZ and BM, implying the poor plasticity behavior of the material. Analysis results of the residual stress analysis demonstrate a high level of tensile residual stress appearance in the WM and HAZ.
To evaluate and compare the fatigue behavior (fatigue limit and fatigue life) and damage modes of high-performance poly-ether-ketone-ketone (PEKK), zirconia and alloy bilayered crowns.
A total of 110 crowns (n = 50 for fatigue limit and n = 60 for fatigue life) were fabricated and used in this study.
Pekkton® ivory discs, yttrium stabilized zirconia blanks and NiCr casting alloy were used to produce the respective PEKK, zirconia and alloy copings for crown fabrication.
The prepared crowns were veneered with composite resin and subjected to fatigue tests.
The fatigue limit was evaluated using the staircase method and the fatigue life of the samples was evaluated by subjecting the crowns to a load lower than the fatigue limit of that particular group, and also with an intermediate load of 522 N.
A graphical plot was generated from the shape parameter (β) and life parameter (α) values obtained through the Weibull analysis method.
Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney tests were applied to determine the significance differences in the recorded fracture mode between the study groups.
The damage modes of the samples were assessed using Burke's classification.
The recorded fatigue limits of the groups were 442.8 ± 42.1 N, 608.7 ± 7.6 N, and 790.4 ± 29.2 N for zirconia, NiCr and PEKK, respectively.
A significant difference in the fatigue limit of the groups was observed (p < 0.05).
PEKK samples demonstrated the highest survival cycles of 1,170,000 and the lowest survival cycles was observed with zirconia samples at 100,000 under 522 N loading.
The fracture modes in PEKK samples were largely distributed between code 1 and 2 whereas the fracture modes in NiCr group was distributed between code 1 and 4 and YZ crowns exhibited more of code 5 fractures.
The difference in fracture modes among the groups was statistically significant (p < 0.05).
The PEKK group demonstrated better results compared to zirconia and NiCr based crowns.
The PEKK group demonstrated high fatigue limit and survived the highest fatigue life cycles among the tested groups.
Although luting space is related to the marginal fit of indirect restorations, information on its influence on the marginal fit and tensile strength of zirconia abutments bonded to titanium bases is lacking.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the influence of luting space on the marginal discrepancy and tensile strength of zirconia abutments bonded to a titanium base after dynamic loading.
Ninety implant replicas were embedded in resin blocks to attach 4-mm-high titanium luting bases.
Zirconia abutments (Ceramill Zolid FX) were fabricated with different internal luting spaces: 25 μm (G25), 50 μm (G50), or 75 μm (G75).
The zirconia abutments were cemented on the titanium bases by using a resin cement (Panavia F 2.0) under a constant load of 20 N.
The marginal discrepancy and internal fit of 10 random specimens from each group were evaluated with a stereoscopic microscope at ×50 magnification.
The remaining specimens were submitted to the tensile strength test in which half were evaluated after dynamic loading (1.2 million cycles of 200 N at 3.8 Hz) in a mechanical fatigue machine.
The tensile strength test was performed using a pullout apparatus coupled to a universal testing machine at a crosshead speed of 0.5 mm/min.
The mode of failure was determined by observation at ×50 magnification under a stereomicroscope and classified into adhesive or mixed.
The groups were compared by using 2-way ANOVA and the Tukey HSD test (α=.05).
Increase in the luting space did not influence the marginal discrepancy (P>.05).
All zirconia abutments exhibited lower pullout strength after fatigue simulation (P<.05).
G75 demonstrated lower tensile strength than G25 and G50 before and after loading (P<.05).
Most failures were adhesive at the zirconia-cement interface.
The increase of the luting space to 75 μm did not influence marginal discrepancy; however, it reduced the tensile strength of a zirconia abutment bonded to a titanium base.
Because solder joint interconnections are the weaknesses of microelectronic packaging, their reliability has great influence on the reliability of the entire packaging structure.
Based on an accelerated life test the reliability assessment and life prediction of lead-free solder joints using Weibull distribution are investigated.
The type-I interval censored lifetime data were collected from a thermal cycling test, which was implemented on microelectronic packaging with lead-free ball grid array (BGA) and fine-pitch ball grid array (FBGA) interconnection structures.
The number of cycles to failure of lead-free solder joints is predicted by using a modified Engelmaier fatigue life model and a type-I censored data processing method.
Then, the Pan model is employed to calculate the acceleration factor of this test.
A comparison of life predictions between the proposed method and the ones calculated directly by Matlab and Minitab is conducted to demonstrate the practicability and effectiveness of the proposed method.
At last, failure analysis and microstructure evolution of lead-free solders are carried out to provide useful guidance for the regular maintenance, replacement of substructure, and subsequent processing of electronic products.
This investigation studies the effect of the shot-blasting treatment on the cyclic deformation behavior of a commercially pure titanium, with two microstructures: equiaxed and acicular.
The fatigue tests were carried out in artificial saliva medium at 37 degrees C.
Cyclic deformation tests have been carried out up to fracture, and the fatigue crack nucleation and propagation have been analyzed.
The results show that the shot-blasting treatment improves the fatigue life in the microstructures studied, and that the equiaxed was better in mechanical properties than the acicular.
The cause of this improvement in the mechanical properties is due to the compressive stress on the material surface for the shot-blasted specimens.
Hardness tests were carried out to determine the value of these internal stresses.
To compare retentive forces of removable partial denture clasps traditionally fabricated with cobalt-chromium (CoCr) material and two computer-aided design and computer-aided manufactured (CAD/CAM) thermoplastic polymers.
Forty-eight clasp assemblies (16 CoCr, 16 polyetheretherketone (PEEK) and 16 polyetherketoneketone (PEKK) thermoplastic polymer) were fabricated for 48 mandibular tooth analogs.
Individual clasps were inserted and removed on the tooth analogs utilizing a chewing simulator for 15,000 cycles to simulate 10 years of use.
Retentive forces were measured utilizing a mechanical load tester at baseline and intervals of 1500 cycles.
Data were analyzed with one-way Analysis of Variance, Tukey post-hoc, and paired T tests.
Mean retentive forces between all groups were significantly different (p < 0.001).
Retentive forces of CoCr clasps were significantly higher than both polymers (p < 0.001).
The mean retentive forces for PEEK were not significantly different from PEKK (p = 0.23).
A significant increase in retentive forces was observed for all three clasps after the first period of cycling, followed by continual decrease for the remaining cycles.
At the endpoint of 15,000 cycles, no clasp assemblies showed lower retentive forces than at initial baseline.
Thermoplastic polymer clasps demonstrated lower retentive forces compared to CoCr clasps.
All three groups displayed a similar pattern of initial increase, followed by a gradual decrease, of retentive force.
Despite this observation, the clasps maintained similar or higher retentive forces than measured at baseline.
This resistance to fatigue and ability to fabricate with CAD/CAM technologies provides support for clinical use of these high-performance polymer (HPP) materials.
To examine and compare in an ex vivo study different nitinol stent designs intended for the superficial femoral artery (SFA) with regard to the appearance of fracture.
Seven different 8-×40-mm nitinol stents were evaluated (Misago, Absolute, Smart, Luminexx, Sentinol, Lifestent NT, and Sinus-Superflex).
Finite element analysis (FEA) was used for digitalized stent design comparison; the strain during stent movement was calculated for bending, compression, and torsion.
Additional mechanical fatigue tests for bending (70°), compression (40%), and torsion (twisted counterclockwise by 180°) were performed up to 650,000 cycles or until a fracture was observed.
The FEA bending test showed that only the Misago, LifeStent, and Absolute stents presented no zones of high strain; in the torsion test, the Smart stent also had no zones of high strain.
Macroscopic evaluation after mechanical bending indicated that the LifeStent performed the best (no stent fracture after 650,000 cycles).
Misago and Absolute stents showed fractures at 536,000 cycles and 456,667 cycles, respectively (range 320,000-650,000 cycles).
After compression and torsion testing, Misago showed no stent fracture after 650,000 cycles.
The worst performing stent was Luminexx during all test cycles.
The 7 SFA stents showed differences in the incidence of high strain zones, which indicates a potential for stent fracture, as demonstrated by the mechanical fatigue tests.
Differences in stent design might play a major role in the appearance of stent strut fracture related to restenosis and reocclusion.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of radiation therapy (RT) on mechanical properties and translucency of monolithic zirconia.
Yttria- stabilized zirconia (Y-PSZ) materials (14 × 4.0 × 1.5 mm) were divided in four experimental groups (n = 30): High-translucency/control (HT/C), high-translucency/irradiated (HT/I), low-translucency/control (LT/C), low-translucency/irradiated (LT/I).
Irradiated specimens were submitted to a single dose irradiation of 70 Gray.
Flexural strength (n = 10) (FS-3-point bending test), fatigue limits (n = 15) at 100,000 cycles (FLs-staircase approach), and translucency (n = 5) (TP-dental spectrometer) were analyzed.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to characterize the materials.
FS and TP data were analyzed by one-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Tukey HSD.
FLs were analyzed using Dixon and Mood method, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis.
RT affected FS of LT zirconia (p = .032) but not of HT zirconia (p = .86).
FLs and TP of both materials were not affected by RT (p > .05).
Higher cubic content after RT was observed.
In conclusion, RT may affect flexural strength and crystalline content of zirconia-based materials, but this effect was not observed under fatigue.
Translucency of Y-PSZ restorations is also not affected by RT.
Tensile and low-cycle fatigue tests of high-strength compacted graphite cast iron (CGI, RuT450) were carried out at 25 °C, 400 °C, and 500 °C, respectively.
The results show that with the increase in temperature, the tensile strength decreases slowly and then decreases rapidly.
The fatigue life decreases, and the life reduction increases at high temperature and high strain amplitude.
The oxide layer appears around the graphite and cracks at high temperature, and the dependence of crack propagation on ferrite gradually decreases.
With the increase in strain amplitude, the initial cyclic stress of compacted graphite cast iron increases at three temperatures, and the cyclic hardening phenomenon is obvious.
The fatigue life prediction method based on the energy method and damage mechanism for compacted graphite cast iron is summarized and proposed after comparing and analyzing a large amount of fatigue data.
The next generation of flexible electronics will require highly stretchable and transparent electrodes, many of which consist of a relatively stiff metal network (or carbon materials) and an underlying soft substrate.
Typically, such a stiff-soft bilayer suffers from wrinkling or folding when subjected to strains, causing high surface roughness and seriously deteriorated optical transparency.
In this work, a network with a giant effective Poisson's ratio on a soft substrate is found to be under biaxial tension upon deformation, and thus does not wrinkle or fold, but maintains smooth surfaces and high transparency.
Soft tactile sensors employing such network electrodes exhibit high transparency and low fatigue over many stretching cycles.
Such a giant Poisson's ratio has the same effect in other systems.
This work offers a new understanding of surface instabilities and a general strategy to prevent them not only in flexible electronics, but also in other materials and mechanical structures that require flat surfaces.
The present study proposes the use of ultrasonic back-reflected waves for evaluating low cycle fatigue crack growth from persistent slip bands (PSBs) of stainless steel under block loading.
Fatigue under high-low block loading changes the back-reflected intensity of the ultrasonic wave that emanates from the surface.
Measuring the change in ultrasonic intensity can predict the start of crack growth with reasonable accuracy.
The present study also proposes a modified constant cumulative plastic strain method and a PSB damage evolution model to predict the onset of crack growth under block loads.
In response to the intensifying competition in the mold market and the increasingly stringent specifications of die forgings, the existing 55NiCrMoV7 (MES 1 steel) material can no longer meet the elevated demands of customers.
Consequently, this study systematically optimizes the alloy composition of MES 1 steel by precisely adjusting the molybdenum (Mo) and vanadium (V) contents.
The primary objective is to significantly enhance the microstructure and thermal-mechanical fatigue performance of the steel, thereby developing a high-performance, long-life hot working die steel designated as MES 2 steel.
The thermal-mechanical fatigue (TMF) tests of two test steels were conducted in reverse mechanical strain control at 0.6% and 1.0% strain levels by a TMF servo-hydraulic testing system (MTS).
The microstructures of the two steels were characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
The results indicate that throughout the entire thermomechanical fatigue cycle, both steels exhibit initial hardening during the low-temperature half-cycle (tension half-cycle) and subsequent continuous softening during the high-temperature half-cycle (compression half-cycle).
Furthermore, under the same strain condition, the cumulative cyclic softening damage of MES 1 steel is more pronounced than that of the newly developed MES 2 steel.
The number, width, and length of cracks in MES 2 steel are smaller than those in MES 1 steel, and the thermomechanical fatigue life of MES 2 steel is significantly longer than that of MES 1 steel.
The microstructures show that the main precipitate phase in MES 1 steel is Cr-dominated rod-shaped carbide.
It presents obvious coarsening and is prone to inducing stress concentration, thus facilitating crack initiation and propagation.
The precipitate phase in MES 2 steel is mainly MC carbide containing Mo and V.
It has a high thermal activation energy and is dispersed in the matrix in the form of particles, pinning dislocations and grain boundaries.
This effectively delays the reduction in dislocation density and grain growth, thus contributing positively to the improvement in thermomechanical fatigue performance.
The incidence of screw loosening, migration, and pullout caused by the insufficient screw-bone fixation stability is relatively high in clinical practice.
To solve this issue, the auxetic unit-based porous bone screw (AS) has been put forward in our previous work.
Its favorable auxetic effect can improve the primary screw-bone fixation stability after implantation.
However, porous structure affected the fatigue behavior and in vivo longevity of bone screw.
In this study, in vitro fatigue behaviors and in vivo osseointegration performance of the re-entrant unit-based titanium auxetic bone screw were studied.
The tensile-tensile fatigue behaviors of AS and nonauxetic bone screw (NS) with the same porosity (51%) were compared via fatigue experiments, fracture analysis, and numerical simulation.
The in vivo osseointegration of AS and NS were compared via animal experiment and biomechanical analysis.
Additionally, the effects of in vivo dynamic tensile loading on the osseointegration of AS and NS were investigated and analyzed.
The fatigue strength of AS was approximately 43% lower while its osseointegration performance was better than NS.
Under in vivo dynamic tensile loading, the osseointegration of AS and NS both improved significantly, with the maximum increase of approximately 15%.
Preferrable osseointegration of AS might compensate for the shortage of fatigue resistance, ensuring its long-term stability in vivo.
Adequate auxetic effect and long-term stability of the AS was supposed to provide enough screw-bone fixation stability to overcome the shortages of the solid bone screw, developing the success of surgery and showing significant clinical application prospects in orthopedic surgery.
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This research investigated the high-cycle fatigue behavior of re-entrant unit-based auxetic bone screw under tensile-tensile cyclic loading and its osseointegration performance, which has not been focused on in existing studies.
The fatigue strength of auxetic bone screw was lower while the osseointegration was better than non-auxetic bone screw, especially under in vivo tensile loading.
Favorable osseointegration of auxetic bone screw might compensate for the shortage of fatigue resistance, ensuring its long-term stability and longevity in vivo.
This suggested that with adequate auxetic effect and long-term stability, the auxetic bone screw had significant application prospects in orthopedic surgery.
Findings of this study will provide a theoretical guidance for design optimization and clinical application of the auxetic bone screw.
New glass ionomer cements exhibit better mechanical properties than their older counterparts.
However, there is concern about their use as a core material in post-and-core applications.
This in vitro study evaluated the fatigue resistance of 2 new glass ionomer cements, Shofu Hi-Dense and Fuji IX GP, and compared their mechanical behavior as a core material under masticatory load with a silver-reinforced glass ionomer (ESPE Ketac-Silver) and a silver amalgam (Cavex Avaloy LC).
A total of 100 commercial plastic teeth were divided into 4 groups of 25 specimens each.
Titanium posts were placed in the prepared root canals, and cores were built up in amalgam, silver-reinforced glass ionomer cement, and the 2 new glass ionomer cements.
The post-and-core specimens were prepared for full cast metal crowns, which were fabricated and cemented with glass ionomer cement.
Twenty specimens from each group were placed in a mastication simulator and cyclically loaded with a 400 N force for 1.5 million cycles.
The 5 remaining specimens were used as controls.
The specimens were sectioned and observed macroscopically and microscopically to determine the number of defects (alterations) in each material. Observed defects were verified with the Kruskal-Wallis test, and the 4 core materials were ranked with the Tukey multiple comparisons test.
The mean rank sum values of the defects were as follows: Cavex Avaloy LC Amalgam (16.75), Fuji IX GP (38.50), Shofu Hi-Dense (39.53), and ESPE Ketac-Silver (67.22).
The amalgam alloy was significantly different (P< .05) from the others.
Under the conditions of this study, the 2 new glass ionomer cements used as core materials showed a higher number of defects than amalgam.
These results suggest that their fatigue resistance may be inadequate for post-and-core applications.
In this paper, a low-cycle-fatigue (LCF) crack initiation life prediction approach that explicitly distinguishes nucleation and small crack propagation regimes is presented for ultrafine-grained (UFG) aluminum alloy by introducing two fatigue indicator parameters (FIPs) at the grain level.
These two characterization parameters, the deformation inhomogeneity measured by the standard deviation of the dot product of normal stress and longitudinal strain and the microscale multiaxial strain considering the non-proportional cyclic additional hardening and mean strain effect, were proposed and respectively regarded as the driving forces for fatigue nucleation and small crack propagation.
Then, the nucleation and small crack propagation lives were predicted by correlating these FIPs with statistical variables and cyclic J-integrals, respectively.
By constructing a microstructure-based 3D polycrystalline finite element model with a free surface, a crystal plasticity finite element-based numerical simulation was carried out to quantify FIPs and clarify the role of crystallographic anisotropy in fatigue crack initiation.
The numerical results reveal the following: (1) Nucleation is prone to occur on the surface of a material as a result of it having a higher inhomogeneous deformation than the interior of the material. (2) Compared with the experimental data, the LCF initiation life of UFG 6061 aluminum alloy could be predicted using the new parameters as FIPs.
(3) The predicted results confirm the importance of considering the fatigue behavior of nucleation and small crack propagation with different deformation mechanisms for improving the fatigue crack initiation life prediction accuracy.
In-situ scanning electron microscopy (SEM) testing based on a small time scale is proposed to integrally investigate the fatigue crack growth behavior and mechanisms, which is different from the widely-used, cycle-based approach due to its small time scale and comprehensive analysis of the effects of microstructure, crack closure and applied loading on crack growth.
In the proposed methodology, the behavior of fatigue crack growth at any time within a loading cycle is observed by SEM to investigate the influence of microstructure on crack growth.
Images with high resolution are taken to measure the crack tip opening displacement (CTOD), and the correlation between CTOD and the stress intensity factor (SIF)
Submerged arc additive manufacturing (SAAM) is a viable technique for manufacturing large and complex specialized parts used in structural applications.
At present, manufacturing high-strength low-alloy steel T-branch pipe through SAAM has not been reported.
This paper uses this technology to manufacture low-alloy structural steel parts.
The microstructures of the samples were characterized, which revealed that they were mainly composed of polygonal ferrites.
The tensile properties in the horizontal and vertical directions of deposits were studied.
Results show that the horizontal tensile strength of deposits was quite close to the vertical one, while the elongation rate in the vertical direction was obviously lower than that in the horizontal direction.
Fatigue results indicate that the strain fatigue limit of high-strength low-alloy steel samples in vertical direction was 0.24%.
The fatigue fractures of fatigue samples of deposits showed multi-source crack initiation characteristics and the crack propagation regions exhibited typical fatigue striations, so the final instantaneous fracture region showed a ductile fracture.
Fatigue performance is very important for the safe service of structural parts, but there is a lack of relevant research on this additive manufacturing part.
The results of this paper may support the popularization of the SAAM for high-strength low-alloy steel T-branch pipe.
To reveal the relationship between grain size and twinning deformation of magnesium alloys under cyclic strain, this study carried out a group of strain-controlled low-cycle fatigue experiments and statistical analysis of microstructures.
Experimental results show that the shape of the hysteresis loop exhibits significant asymmetry at different strain amplitudes, and the accumulation of residual twins plays an important role in subsequent cyclic deformation.
For the different strain amplitudes, the statistical distribution of the grain size of magnesium alloy approximately follows the Weibull probability function distribution, while the statistical distribution of twin thickness is closer to that of Gaussian probability function.
The twin nucleation number (TNN) increases with the increase of grain size, but there is no obvious function relationship between twin thickness and grain size.
Twin volume fraction (TVF) increases with the increase of grain size, which is mainly due to the increase of TNN.
This work can provide experimental evidence for a more accurate description of the twinning deformation mechanism.
Stretchable hydrogel-based strain sensors suffer from limited sensitivity, which urgently requires further breakthroughs for precise and stable human-computer interaction.
Here, an efficient microstructural engineering strategy is proposed to significantly enhance the sensitivity of hydrogel-based strain sensors by sandwiching an emulsion-polymerized polyacrylamide organohydrogel microsphere membrane between two Ecoflex films, which are accompanied by crack generation and propagation effects upon stretching.
Consequently, the as-developed strain sensor exhibits ultrahigh sensitivity (gauge factor (GF) of 1275), wide detection range (100% strain), low hysteresis, ultralow detection limit (0.05% strain), good fatigue resistance, and low fabrication cost.
In addition, the sensor features good water, dehydration, and frost resistance, enabling real-time strain monitoring in various complex conditions due to the encapsulation of Ecoflex film and the addition of glycerol and KCl.
Through further structural manipulation, the device achieves superior response to tiny strains, with a GF value of 98.3 in the strain range of less than 1.5%.
Owing to the high strain sensing performance, the sensor is able to detect various human activities from swallowing to finger bending even under water.
On this basis, a wireless sensing system with apnea warning and single-channel gesture recognition capabilities is successfully demonstrated, demonstrating its great promise as wearable electronics.
The improved esthetics of ceramic dental prostheses has increased their popularity, although their high elastic modulus and low fracture toughness and tensile strength may reduce the long-term performance of dental prostheses.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to assess the mechanical integrity of zirconium-lithium silicate glass-ceramic crowns cement- and screw-retained to a titanium implant-abutment after fatigue.
Forty titanium implants were placed in polyacetal to mimic bone support.
Abutments were tightened to the implants to 20 Ncm by using a digital handheld torque meter.
The implant abutment assemblies received a pressed maxillary premolar crown, either lithium disilicate (LD) or zirconium-lithium silicate glass-ceramic (LZS).
The specimens (n=10) were subjected to fatigue at 200 N and 5 Hz for 500 000 cycles in a Ringer electrolytic solution (37°C).
After fatigue, the crowns were removed to evaluate removal torque values on the implant-abutment connection.
The remaining crown-implant-abutment assemblies were cross-sectioned at 90 degrees to the implant-abutment joint for inspection of cracks and the micro-gaps by scanning electron microscopy.
Removal torque values before fatigue were recorded at 18 ±1.63 Ncm for the LD group and 18.2 ±0.81 Ncm for the LZS group.
After fatigue, the removal torque values decreased significantly (12.8 ±1.6 Ncm for LD, 14.9 ±1.08 Ncm for LZS; P<.05).
Micro-gaps at the implant-abutment connections were measured at 0.9 ±0.3 μm before fatigue and at 4.2 ±0.9 μm after fatigue.
Cracks were detected at the crown adhesive or at the adhesive-abutment interface for both systems after fatigue.
Cement- and screw-retained implant zirconium-lithium silicate glass-ceramic crowns revealed effective fatigue resistance on mean cyclic loading in an electrolyte solution.
However, mechanical instability of the crown-adhesive-abutment interfaces and implant-abutment joints was detected after fatigue.
Enamel is a composite material consisting of mineral and organic phases.
The properties of the mineral phase are modulated dramatically by its division into microscopic crystals, cemented together by the organic matrix protein polymer.
A good concept of the 3D orientations of the crystals derives from visualizing their growth perpendicular to the surface in which they develop, which is pitted by the secretory poles of the ameloblasts.
The arrangement of the crystals is the cause of the discontinuities, known as the prism boundaries or junctions, in the otherwise continuous structure.
These locations acquire a more concentrated organic matrix during maturation, and they are both crack stoppers and crack propagation tracks in the adult tissue.
Any tendency of prisms to cleave may be reduced by their varicosities, which reflect daily variations in the rate of production; their cross-sectional shape; the non-parallelism of adjacent groups, which develops through translocation of groups of cells across the surface during development; and the support of any one microscopic tissue element by other tissue, including dentine, placed to resist an applied load.
Incremental growth lines are preferential cleavage planes within the enamel.
Failure patterns of enamel in normal and abnormal use can be explained by these parameters, with additional consideration of functional variation and fatigue.
In this paper, a fracto-metallographic analysis was performed on the cracked specimens of cold drawn pearlitic steel subjected to fatigue tests.
Fatigue cracks are transcollonial and exhibit a preference for fracturing pearlitic lamellae, with non-uniform crack opening displacement values, micro-discontinuities, branchings, bifurcations and frequent local deflections that create microstructural roughness.
At the micro-level, the cold drawn pearlitic steel exhibits higher micro-roughness than the hot rolled bar (this is a consequence of the manufacturing process by cold drawing), so that the actual fractured surface in the cold drawn wire is greater than that in the hot rolled bar, due to the fact that the crack deflection events are more frequent and with higher angle in the former (the heavily drawn prestressing steel wire).
These findings show the relevant role on the manufacturing process by cold drawing in the fatigue crack propagation in pearlitic steel.
Intermetallic porous SHS-TiNi alloys exhibit tangled and specific stress-strain characteristics.
This article aims to evaluate the findings emanating from experiments using standard and proprietary instruments.
Fatigue testing under repeated complex loading was used to measure the total number of load cycles before failure of the SHS-TiNi samples occurred.
Of the tested samples, seventy percent passed through 10
The wider use of thermoplastic structural components in modular artificial limbs would enable their general properties of low density, corrosion resistance and mouldability and more specific properties of certain thermoplastics such as shock absorption, fatigue and wear resistance to be used to the advantage of patients and manufacturers.
They provide an alternative to metal and carbon fibre reinforced resin systems.
Emphasis has been placed on the development of rotationally moulded Nylon 11 shank sections, using Philadelphia recommended load levels as the design criteria for structural integrity.
Laboratory testing underlined the importance of fatigue testing of thermoplastic components since structural deterioration due to creep--a time dependent mechanical property of thermoplastics--can be ascertained in fatigue testing but would not be evident on the shorter timescale of the static test.
Experimental below-knee prostheses incorporating suitably designed plastic shanks and alignment devices can withstand high static loads and exhibit long fatigue lifetimes in excess of 2 million cycles.
The shank design offered an opportunity for testing under service conditions the validity of the Philadelphia Static Load level (2.5 kN) since shank failure loads are around this figure.
Patient trials of experimental prostheses based on various combinations of plastic shanks and alignment devices and conducted over 33 months indicate that the Static Load Level along with fatigue testing is a satisfactory test criterion for general service use of thermoplastic prosthetic components.
As the reliability and lifespan requirements of modern equipment continues to escalate, the problems with very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) has obtained increasingly widespread attention, becoming a hot topic in fatigue research.
Titanium alloys, which are the most extensively used metal materials in the modern aerospace industry, are particularly prone to VHCF issues.
The present study systematically reviewed and summarized the latest (since 2010) developments in VHCF research on titanium alloy, with special focus on the (i) experimental methods, (ii) macroscopic and microscopic characteristics of the fatigue fractures, and (iii) construction of fatigue fracture models.
More specifically, the review addresses the technological approaches that were used, mechanisms of fatigue crack initiation, features of the S-N curves and Goodman diagrams, and impact of various factors (such as processing, temperature, and corrosion).
In addition, it elucidates the damage mechanisms, evolution, and modeling of VHCF in titanium alloys, thereby improving the understanding of VHCF patterns in titanium alloys and highlighting the current challenges in VHCF research.
The relationship between the microstructure and tribological behavior of mammalian tooth enamel has not been fully understood.
In this paper, the microstructure, mechanical properties, and tribological behavior of canine (carnivore) and bovine (herbivore) enamel are studied using scanning electronic microscopy and nano-indentation/scratch technique, aiming to reveal the contribution of enamel microstructure to its mechanical and tribological properties.
Canine enamel has a microstructure of hard keyhole-like rods embedded in soft inter-rod enamel, and its surface exhibits high resistance against both micro-crack initiation and crack-induced delamination during friction and wear process.
Bovine enamel with the microstructure consisting of the hydroxyapatite (HAP) nano-fibers in decussation has higher surface hardness and better capabilities of resisting wear and encumbering crack propagation, as compared to canine enamel.
In sum, the soft inter-rod enamel in the canine enamel contributes to high load tolerance and then protects enamel surface from brittle damage, while the staggered arrangement of HAP nano-fibers benefits hard bovine enamel in crack propagation resistance and then help resist wear and fatigue.
The findings suggest that there exists a self-adaptation in enamel microstructure and tribological performance of mammals with their feeding habits, which will promote and assist the bionic design of high-performance materials.
The work is focused on a detailed simulation of the key stages involved in the NiTinol self-expanding stenting surgical procedure; i.e., crimping, deployment, SMA activation, as well as post-surgery steady-state cyclic behavior mimicking the systolic-to-diastolic pressure oscillations.
To this end, a general multi-mechanism SMA model was utilized, whose calibration was completed using the test data from simple isothermal uniaxial tension experiments.
The emphasis in the study was placed on the comparison of two alternative SMA activation protocols, in terms of both the immediate and long-term (post-surgery) performance characteristics.
The first is 'hard' mechanical activation utilizing superelasticity, and the second is 'soft' thermal activation relying upon the combined one-way shape memory effect and constrained-recovery characteristics of the NiTinol material. The important findings are (1) the thermal activation protocol is far superior compared to the mechanical counterpart, from the point of view of lower magnitudes of the induced outward chronic forces, lesser developed stresses in the host tissue, as well as higher compression ratio with lesser crimping force for the same geometry of initial stent memory configuration, (2) the thermal activation protocol completely bypassed the complications of maintaining the high restraining force during deployment of the stent, and (3) there is no indication of any detrimental functional fatigue/degradation in the cured stenotic artery during cyclic pressure oscillations.
Due to recent concern about allergic and toxic effects of Ni ions released from TiNi alloy into human body, much attention has been focused on the development of new Ni-free, metastable beta-type biomedical titanium alloys with a reversible phase transformation between the beta phase and the alpha'' martensite.
This study investigates the effect of the stress-induced alpha'' martensite on the mechanical and fatigue properties of Ti-24Nb-4Zr-7.6Sn (wt.%) alloy.
The results show that the as-forged alloy has a low dynamic Young's modulus of 55GPa and a recoverable tensile strain of approximately 3%.
Compared with Ti-6Al-4V ELI, the studied alloy has quite a high low-cycle fatigue strength because of the effective suppression of microplastic deformation by the reversible martensitic transformation.
Due to the low critical stress required to induce the martensitic transformation, it has low fatigue endurance comparable to that of Ti-6Al-4V ELI.
Cold rolling produces a beta+alpha'' two-phase microstructure that is characterized by regions of nano-size beta grains interspersed with coarse grains containing alpha'' martensite plates.
Cold rolling increases fatigue endurance by approximately 50% while decreasing the Young's modulus to 49GPa along the rolling direction but increasing it to 68GPa along the transverse direction.
Due to the effective suppression of the brittle isothermal omega phase, balanced properties of high strength, low Young's modulus and good ductility can be achieved through ageing treatment at intermediate temperature.
The author wishes to make the following correction to this paper [...].
Solid-state electrolytes (SSEs) with high ionic conductivity, superior electrochemical stability, and mechanical durability are safe and reliable for solid-state lithium (Li) batteries.
However, most existing SSEs suffer from limited mechanical resilience and poor interface contact, impeding their practical deployment.
Here, an in situ phase separation strategy is proposed to construct a class of elastomeric solid-state electrolytes with bicontinuous architecture.
The rigid phase ensures high ionic conductivity (7.8 × 10
Titanium-based alloys are susceptible to hydrogen embrittlement (HE), a phenomenon that deteriorates fatigue properties.
Ti-6Al-4V is the most widely used titanium alloy and the effect of hydrogen embrittlement on fatigue crack growth (FCG) was investigated by carrying out crack propagation tests in air and high-pressure H
In laser powder bed fusion (L-PBF), most powders are not melted in the chamber and collected after the printing process.
Powder reuse is appreciable without sacrificing the mechanical properties of target components.
To understand the influences of powder reuse on mechanical performance, a nickel-based superalloy, IN738LC, was investigated.
Powder morphology, microstructure and chemical compositions of virgin and reused powders were characterized.
An increase in oxygen content, generally metallic oxides, was located on the surface of powders.
Monotonic tensile and cyclic fatigue were tested.
Negligible deterioration in strength and tensile ductility were found, while scattered fatigue performance with regard to fatigue life was shown.
Deformation and fatigue crack propagation mechanisms were discussed for describing the powder degradation effects.
The design of the implant-abutment connection has been widely researched, but the impact of different crown-abutment geometries remains unclear.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the effect of different crown-abutment margin geometries on the mechanical behavior and fit of screw-retained implant-supported single-crown restorations by using mechanical static and fatigue tests and mastication simulation.
A total of 45 cobalt-chromium premolar-shaped metal frameworks were fabricated for single-unit implant-supported screw-retained restorations on stock abutments and internal hexagon Ø4.25×11-mm cylindrical implants.
They were divided into 3 groups according to margin geometry: S, shoulder; C, chamfer; and F, feather-edge.
Three static load until fracture and 24 dynamic load tests were performed by using the International Organization for Standardization 14801:2016 standard (ISO 14801:2016) (number of cycles limit: 5×10 The fatigue limit was 456 N for group S, 512 N for group C, and 514 N for group F.
The mean ±standard deviation misfit was 2.6 ±0.1 μm for group S, 3.8 ±1.1 μm for group C, and 3.6 ±0.8 μm for group F.
Differences in misfit between groups S and C and between groups S and F were statistically significant (P<.05).
Crown-abutment connections with chamfer and feather-edge margins showed better mechanical behavior, while shoulder margin exhibited better fit.
However, high levels of fit were achieved for all the evaluated geometries.
Fatigue resistance and biocompatibility are key parameters for the successful implantation of hard-tissue prostheses, which nowadays are more and more frequently manufactured by selective laser melting (SLM).
For this purpose, the present paper is aimed at investigating the effect of post-sintering treatments on the fatigue behavior and biological properties of Ti samples produced by SLM.
After the building process, all samples are heat treated to achieve a complete stress relief.
The remaining ones are tribofinished with the aim of reducing the surface roughness of the as-sintered condition.
Part of the tribofinished samples are then subjected to one of the following post-sintering treatments: (i) shot peening, (ii) hot isostatic pressing (HIP), and (iii) electropolishing.
It is found that shot peening and HIP are the most effective treatments to improve the high and the very-high cycle fatigue resistance, respectively.
At the same time, they preserve the good biocompatibility ensured by the biomedical Titanium Grade 23.
To investigate the effect of laser shock peening on the fatigue life and surface characteristics of 3.5-mm-diameter cortical bone screws. 32 stainless steel, 3.5-mm-diameter cortical bone screws.
Screws were randomly assigned to an untreated control group or 2 power-density treatment groups, 6 gigawatts (GW)/cm2 and 8.5 GW/cm2, for laser shock peening.
Number of cycles to failure and findings on scanning electron microscopy-assisted morphometric evaluation, including the mode of failure, surface debris, surface damage, and thread deformation, were compared between control and treated screws.
The 6 GW/cm2 treated screws had a significant (11%) improvement in fatigue life, compared with untreated control screws.
The 8.5 GW/cm2 treated screws had a significant (20%) decrease in fatigue life, compared with control screws.
A mild but significant increase in thread deformation was evident in all treated screws, compared with control screws.
The 8.5 GW/cm2 treated screws had significantly more surface irregularities (elevations and pits), compared with control or 6 GW/cm2 treated screws.
A modest positive increase in fatigue strength was produced by this design of laser shock peening on the midshaft of cortical bone screws.
High laser shock peening power densities were detrimental, decreasing screw fatigue strength probably resulting from structural damage.
Greater fatigue life of cortical bone screws can be generated with laser shock peening and could reduce screw breakage as a cause of implant failure; however, future studies will be necessary to address biocompatibility, alternative cleaning techniques, alterations in screw strength and pullout characteristics, and effects on susceptibility to corrosion.
BiSbTe alloy is one of the most important thermoelectric materials that has been commercialized for large-scale applications in waste heat recovery and spot cooling.
However, its practical application often involves complicated service conditions, such as substantial dynamic vibrational stresses as well as long-term exposure to the large thermal gradient that usually generates high thermal stress.
Thus, it is of vital importance to investigate the mechanical response and the evolution of microstructure and thermoelectric performance of BiSbTe alloy under the quasi-static force and dynamic compressive stress.
Herein, we elucidate the compressive fatigue behavior and its influence on the thermoelectric performance of p-type Bi
The aim of this study was to test the mechanical stability of LOQTEQ® HTO plate in comparison to the TomoFix™ internal plate fixator.
An unstable fracture gap model with two standardized polyoxymethylene (POM) cylinders was used for this study.
With this model 5 LOQTEQ® HTO plates and 5 TomoFix™ were cyclically loaded.
The start load was 100 N and increased by 50 N after each successful completed cycle.
Each load step included 250,000 cycles.
All tests were performed in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Standard Specification and Test Method for Metallic Bone Plates F382-99(2003)e1.
The mean fatigue strength of the LOQTEQ® HTO Plate was 155 % of the value gained by the TomoFix™ implant.
This difference was statistically significant (t test <0.001).
There was also a significant difference in the cycles but both implants survived.
The LOQTEQ® HTO Plate system survived 1,520,336.8 (±121,687.7) cycles, whereas the TomoFix™ group passed on average 847,802,600 (±134,660.7) cycles.
In both groups, the only failure mode was plate breakage in a shaft hole.
The results of the present study showed that fatigue strength of the LOQTEQ® HTO plate was significantly higher in comparison to TomoFix™.
These results justify the clinical use of the LOQTEQ® HTO plate.
This study investigated high-cycle fatigue behavior in three β-Ti wires (TMA, Resolve, Gummetal).
Fatigue was evaluated using a static three-point bending test and a high-cycle fatigue test with a three-point bending mode.
The surfaces of fractured wires were observed with scanning electron microscopy, and the post-fatigue crystal structures were determined by micro-X-ray diffraction.
The Gummetal wire exhibited the lowest elastic modulus, bending strength and fatigue limit, and exhibited the highest resilience of the three types of wire studied.
However, no difference in the number of cycles to failure was observed among the three types of wire.
The fatigue crack propagation and rapid propagation regions of all wires contained single-phase β-Ti.
The elastic modulus and bending strength influenced the fatigue limit, although these properties did not affect the number of cycles to fracture.
The three types of β-Ti wires exhibited similar risks of wire fracture.
This study investigated a 460 MPa marine engineering steel's microstructure and low-cycle fatigue (LCF) behavior along the thickness direction.
The results showed that the low-cycle fatigue life was reduced from 9681, 4395, 2107, 1020, 829 to 7222, 1832, 1015, 630, 242 with the specimen taken from the surface to the middle of steel plate, increasing grain size and decreasing the content of high-angle grain boundaries (HAGBs).
All specimens showed notable cyclic hardening and softening.
This was related to the dislocation movement, interaction, accumulation, annihilation, and dynamic recovery during fatigue tests.
Furthermore, the crack propagation paths in the fatigue specimens were also observed and discussed.
Finally, the Basquin and Coffin-Manson relationships were used to suggest a prediction model for the LCF life at strain amplitudes ranging from 0.4% to 1.2%, and the anticipated outcomes agreed well with the test results.
Titanium alloy (ASTM F-136) rods were coated with hydroxyapatite (HA) of 3 levels of crystallinity, which were determined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis to be 60.5%, 52.8%, and 47.8%.
Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy analysis showed the removal of the hydroxyl and carbonate groups as compared to the original HA powder.
It appears that these changes are caused by the high temperature plasma spray coating process.
Cyclic fatigue testing in a lactated Ringer's solution to 5 million cycles showed no statistical difference in calcium dissolution among the 3 crystalline levels, whereas phosphorus dissolution was lowest from the highest crystalline coating sample.
The mechanical properties, however, did not change in response to fatigue loading.
The purpose of the study was to describe a novel growth guidance system, which can avoid metal debris and reduce the sliding friction forces, and test the durability and glidability of the system by in vitro test.
Two major modifications were made to the traditional Shilla system, including the use of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) gaskets to avoid direct contact between the screw and rod, and polishing the surface of the sliding part of the rod.
We tested the durability of the system by a fatigue test, which the samples were test on the MTS system for a 10 million cycle of a constant displacement.
Pre and post-testing involved weighing the UHMWPE gaskets and observing the wear conditions.
The sliding ability were measured by a sliding displacement test.
The maximum sliding displacement of the system was measured after a 300 cycles of dynamic compressive loads in a sinusoidal waveform.
After the fatigue test, all the UHMWPE gaskets samples showed some of the fretting on the edge of the inner sides, but its still isolated and avoided the friction between the screws and rods.
There was no production of metallic fretting around the sliding screws and rods.
The average wear mass of the UHMWPE gaskets was 0.002 ± 0.001 g, less than 1.7% of the original mass.
In the sliding test, the novel growth guidance system demonstrated the best sliding ability, with an average maximum sliding distance(AMSD) of 35.75 ± 5.73 mm, significantly better than the group of the traditional Shilla technique(AMSD 3.65 ± 0.46 mm, P < 0.0001).
In conclusion, we modified the Shilla technique and designed a novel growth guidance system by changing the friction interface of sliding screw and rod, which may significantly reduce the metallic debris and promote spine growth.
The fatigue test and sliding dislocation test demonstrated the better durability and glidability of the system.
An in vivo animal experiment should be performed to further verify the system.
Aqueous rechargeable zinc metal batteries (ARZBs) suffer from uncontrolled dendrite growth and parasitic reactions, limiting large-scale deployment.
These challenges can be addressed by functional hydrogel electrolytes as alternatives to aqueous ones.
Yet their mechanical stability under repeated deformation has been largely overlooked, resulting in poor cycling at long lifetimes or high capacities.
Here, we present a sustainable, fatigue-resistant cellulose-based elastomer electrolyte, developed via a two-step network strategy.
This design strengthens mechanical properties while introducing negatively charged ion channels that regulate Zn
Ratcheting fatigue behavior is a critical phenomenon in structural materials undergoing cyclic loading, particularly when combined with nonzero mean stress or multiaxial stress states.
This manifests as the progressive buildup of plastic strain in one direction with each loading cycle, ultimately leading to material degradation and failure.
This behavior is highly relevant in industries such as automotive, aerospace, nuclear, and civil engineering, where components frequently experience complex loading conditions.
Structural materials exposed to ratcheting fatigue often exhibit changes in their mechanical properties, such as cyclic hardening or softening, which influence their ability to withstand cyclic stresses.
Factors such as the mean stress, stress amplitude, loading path, material microstructure, and environmental conditions play crucial roles in governing the ratcheting response.
Understanding the ratcheting fatigue behavior is essential for the design and life prediction of critical components.
Comprehensive investigations through experimental testing and computational modelling are required.
This investigation presents the asymmetrical stress-controlled (ratcheting) behaviour of 9 C-1Mo modified steel and IN-617 superalloy at service temperatures of 600 and 800
Fatigue in metals involves gradual failure through incremental propagation of cracks under repetitive mechanical load.
In structural applications, fatigue accounts for up to 90% of in-service failure
Regular 3D periodic porous Ti-6Al-4V structures intended to reduce the effects of stress shielding in load-bearing bone replacement implants (e.g., hip stems) were fabricated over a range of relative densities (0.17-0.40) and pore sizes (approximately 500-1500 μm) using selective electron beam melting (EBM).
Compression-compression fatigue testing (15 Hz, R = 0.1) resulted in normalized fatigue strengths at 10(6) cycles ranging from 0.15 to 0.25, which is lower than the expected value of 0.4 for solid material of the same acicular α microstructure.
The three possible reasons for this reduced fatigue lifetime are stress concentrations from closed porosity observed within struts, stress concentrations from observed strut surface features (sintered particles and texture lines), and microstructure (either acicular α or martensite) with less than optimal high-cycle fatigue resistance.
Thin films are used in a wide variety of computing and communication applications although their fatigue behavior and its dependence on alloying elements are not very well known.
In this paper, we present an experimental implementation of a novel high-throughput fatigue testing method for metallic thin films.
The methodology uses the fact that the surface strain amplitude of a vibrating cantilever decreases linearly from the fixed end to the free end.
Therefore, a thin film attached to a vibrating cantilever will experience a gradient of strain and corresponding stress amplitudes along the cantilever.
Each cantilever can be used to extract a lifetime diagram by measuring the fatigue-induced damage front that progresses along the cantilever during up to 10
The aims of this study were to investigate the torsional properties of three experimental titanium miniscrew implants for orthodontic anchorage and to determine the relationship between the torsional properties and metallurgical structures.
Experimental miniscrew implants with a diameter of 1.4 mm were fabricated from commercially pure (CP) titanium (alpha-titanium), Ti-4Al-4V (duplex alpha-beta-titanium), and Ti-33Nb-15Ta-6Zr (beta-titanium).
Micro-X-ray diffraction (XRD) was performed to identify phases, and microstructures of etched cross-sections were obtained with scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Implants were loaded in torsion (n = 5), and mean moments and twist angles at fracture were statistically compared using the Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U-tests.
Cyclic torsional moment for fracture of starting square wires (2 × 2 × 30 mm) was measured (n = 3).
At fracture, the Ti-4Al-4V and Ti-33Nb-15Ta-6Zr implants demonstrated significantly higher mean torque than the CP titanium implant, while the Ti-33Nb-15Ta-6Zr implant had a significantly higher mean twist angle than the other two implants.
The CP titanium and Ti-33Nb-15Ta-6Zr implants displayed good fatigue performance and excellent ductility.
Ti-33Nb-15Ta-6Zr beta-titanium alloy is suitable for manufacturing miniscrew implants since it has excellent torsional properties.
Cyclic deformation at low-stress amplitudes of a rare earth-containing magnesium alloy (Mg⁻Gd⁻Y⁻Zr) was investigated with emphasis on the responsible microstructural relationship between deformation mechanism and fatigue crack initiation.
The results show that the microstructural deformation is extremely inhomogeneous at the low-stress amplitudes.
Both deformation twinning and non-basal slip are barely observed, and basal slip is the predominant deformation to accommodate micro-plasticity.
Fatigue crack initiation occurred at the basal slip bands, causing the morphology of facet on the fracture surface.
Therefore, the basal slip is of prime importance in low-stress cyclic deformation and fatigue failure, and fatigue improvement could potentially be obtained through hindering the motion of basal dislocation by microstructural obstacles.
The issues of the high-cycle fatigue resistance of notches and the role of non-propagating short cracks in defining the fatigue notch sensitivity and fatigue limit of the configuration are addressed.
A fracture mechanics approach is employed to determine the threshold configuration that defines the associated fatigue limit.
The influence of notch sharpness, notch size, intrinsic fatigue limit, microstructural dimensions, and the threshold for crack propagation is examined.
A simple expression is proposed to estimate the maximum fatigue notch factor,
Implants are widely used in the human body for the replacement of affected bones.
Fatigue failure is one of the serious concerns for implants.
Therefore, understanding of the underlying mechanism leading to fatigue failure is important for the longevity of biomaterial implants.
In this paper, the fracture toughness and fatigue crack growth of titanium alloy biomaterial Ti-27Nb has been experimentally investigated.
The Ti-27Nb material is tested for fatigue crack growth in different environmental conditions representing the ambient and in vitro environments for 504 hours and 816 hours, respectively.
Fractography of the tested specimen is conducted using Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM).
The results of the fatigue crack growth propagation of the ambient and in vitro samples are similar in the Paris crack growth region.
However, in the threshold region, the crack growth rate is higher for the Simulated Body Fluid (SBF) treated specimen.
The fracture surface morphology of in vitro samples shows brittle fracture as compared to ambient specimens with significant plasticity and striations marks.
It is proposed that a similar investigation may be conducted with specimens treated in SBF for prolonged periods to further ascertain the findings of this study.
This study investigates the microstructural evolution and mechanical degradation mechanisms of cold-drawn 310S stainless steel subjected to repeated thermal cycling between 900 °C and room temperature.
The results reveal that thermal cycling induces significant lattice distortion, dislocation accumulation, and recrystallization, leading to grain refinement and increased tensile strength.
However, these microstructural changes also initiate subsurface cracks and reduce ductility.
TGA analysis confirms thermal weight loss from decarburization, especially under oxidative atmospheres.
EPMA analysis and tensile tests after thermal cycling reveal that surface cracks formed during thermal cycling act as origins for transgranular crack propagation under tensile stress, significantly reducing fracture resistance.
Bending fatigue tests further demonstrate that thermally fatigued specimens exhibit inferior fatigue life compared to raw material, confirming the deteriorating mechanical properties of 310S stainless steel after thermal cycling.
Overall, the combined effects of thermal and mechanical fatigue degrade the structural integrity of 310S stainless steel, revealing that lattice distortion and subsurface cracking are the key factors in its embrittlement and reduced fatigue performance.
The aim of this study was, firstly, to analyse the long-time fatigue behaviour of crowns constructed from a novel polyetherketoneketone (PEKK) polymer, using artificial prepared teeth.
Secondly, to determine the effect of the material's stiffness that used as an artificial prepared tooth on the fatigue life of the PEKK crowns in comparison to human prepared teeth.
Veneered crowns with a PEKK framework were constructed on three different prepared teeth: artificial polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) teeth, artificial CoCr teeth and extracted human teeth.
As far as applicable, the loading protocol was based on EN ISO 14801:2007 for fatigue testing of dental implants.
After initial static fracture tests on three specimens from each group, the remaining crowns were loaded with different force levels until fracture or until 2 × 10 Static fracture limits as well as fatigue limits differed for all three core materials.
The static fracture tests resulted in fracture limits of 1200 (± 293) N for the PMMA group, 1330 (± 219) N for the CoCr group and 899 (± 96) N for the human tooth group.
Fatigue limits of 770 N, 840 N and 720 N were determined for the PMMA group, CoCr group and human tooth group, respectively.
The determined fatigue limit of above 720 N (depending on the core material) is sufficiently high and a good performance of this crown material is expected in the clinical loading life.
The results showed that using artificial teeth instead of natural teeth for fatigue testing of crowns might result in an overestimation of the fatigue limits of the crown material. PEKK-made crowns offer a stable and priceworthy treatment for patients, in particular those that suffer from metal allergy.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biomechanical properties of a new anatomical locking metal block plate by comparing the initial biomechanical stability of three different fixation constructs for open wedge high tibial osteotomy (HTO).
Sawbones composite tibiae were used to make a 10-mm opening osteotomy model with uniplane technique.
The osteotomy was secured with three different types of plates: Group I, new osteotomy plate without a metal block (n=5); Group II, new osteotomy plate with a 10-mm metal block (n=5); and Group III, two short metal block plates (n=5).
Single load to failure test and staircase load-controlled cyclical failure test were performed.
In the single load to failure test, the yield load, maximum failure load, and the displacement of the osteotomy gap were measured.
In the staircase cyclical load to failure test, the total number of cycles to failure was recorded.
Failure modes were observed during both single and cyclic load tests.
Group II showed the highest yield and ultimate loads (1829±319 N, 3493±1250 N) compared to Group I (1512±157 N, 2422±769 N) and Group III (1369±378 N, 2157±210 N, p<0.05).
The displacement of the opening gap in Group II (0.34±0.35 mm) was significantly lesser than the other groups (p<0.05).
In the staircase cyclical load to failure test, the total number of cycles to failure was 12,860 at 950 N in Group III, 20,280 at 1,140 N in Group I, and 42,816 at 1,330 N in Group II (p<0.05).
All the specimens showed complete fracture of the intact lateral sawbones area and slight displacement of the distal fragment of the specimens in the single load to test.
None of the specimens showed deformed or broken screws and plates during the single load to test.
During the fatigue test with staircase cyclic loading, no fracture of the lateral sawbones area was observed.
This study demonstrated that the new anatomical locking metal block plate could provide sufficient primary stability for open wedge HTO.
The addition of a metal block to this new plate can increase the stability of the osteotomy compared to the one without a metal block.
Porous metals are being widely used in load bearing implant applications with an aim to increase osseointegration and also to reduce stress shielding.
However, fatigue performance of porous metals is extremely important to ensure long-term implant stability, because porous metals are sensitive to crack propagation even at low stresses especially under cyclic loading conditions.
Herein we report high-cycle compression-compression fatigue behavior of laser processed NiTi alloy with varying porosities between ∼1% and 20%.
The results show that compression fatigue of porous NiTi alloy samples is in part similar to metal foams.
The applied stress amplitude is found to have strong influence on the accumulated strain and cyclic stability.
The critical stress amplitudes associated with rapid strain accumulation in porous NiTi alloy samples, with varying relative densities, were found to correspond to 140% of respective 0.2% proof strength indicating that these samples can sustain cyclic compression fatigue stresses up to 1.4 times their yield strength without failure.
Natural load-bearing materials such as tendons have a high water content of about 70 per cent but are still strong and tough, even when used for over one million cycles per year, owing to the hierarchical assembly of anisotropic structures across multiple length scales
In order to satisfy the energy demands of the electromobility market, both Ni-rich and Li-rich layered oxides of NCM type are receiving much attention as high-energy-density cathode materials for application in Li-ion batteries.
However, due to different stability issues, their longevity is limited.
During formation and continuous cycling, especially the electronic and crystal structure suffers from various changes, eventually leading to fatigue and mechanical degradation.
In recent years, comprehensive battery research has been conducted at Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, mainly aiming at better understanding the primary degradation processes occurring in these layered transition metal oxides.
The characteristic process of formation and mechanisms of fatigue are fundamentally characterized and the effect of chemical composition on cell chemistry, electrochemistry, and cycling stability is addressed on different length scales by use of state-of-the-art analytical techniques, ranging from "standard" characterization tools to combinations of advanced in situ and operando methods.
Here, the results are presented and discussed within a broader scientific context.
The process of fatigue in bone is of interest for a number of reasons.
Fatigue damage in vivo can eventually lead to stress fracture, and may also act as a stimulus for bone remodelling and adaptation.
The aim of this paper is to develop a theoretical model which describes the growth of fatigue cracks, especially of microcracks.
The growth behaviour of microcracks is complicated by their interactions with the surrounding microstructure.
This problem has been identified by researchers working on fatigue in engineering materials.
Their work can be adapted to develop an equation in which the growth rate of cracks is related to applied stress conditions and also to a microstructural parameter, d, which is defined as the spacing of barriers to crack growth.
The model can be used to generate stress/life data for comparison with in vitro fatigue experiments.
It can also be used to investigate two hypotheses: that microcracking stimulates repair and that the level of fatigue damage can act as a signal to initiate adaptation processes of deposition or resorption.
Most research on fatigue strengthening of steel has focused on carbon fiber-reinforced polymer (CFRP) strengthening of steel members with existing cracks.
However, in many practical cases, aging steel members do not yet have existing cracks but rather are nearing the end of their designed fatigue life.
Therefore, there is a need to develop a "proactive" retrofit solution that can prevent fatigue crack initiation in aging bridge members.
Such a proactive retrofit approach can be applied to bridge members that have been identified to be deficient, based on structural standards, to enhance their safety margins by extending the design service life.
This paper explains a proactive retrofit design approach based on constant life diagram (CLD) methodology.
The CLD approach is a method that can take into account the combined effect of alternating and mean stress magnitudes to predict the high-cycle fatigue life of a material. To validate the retrofit model, a series of new fatigue tests on steel I-beams retrofitted by the non-prestressed un-bonded CFRP plates have been conducted.
Furthermore, this paper attempts to provide a better understanding of the behavior of un-bonded retrofit (UR) and bonded retrofit (BR) systems.
Retrofitting the steel beams using the UR system took less than half of the time that was needed for strengthening with the BR system.
The results show that the non-prestressed un-bonded ultra-high modulus (UHM) CFRP plates can be effective in preventing fatigue crack initiation in steel members.
Rod fracture is a common complication of growing rods and can result in loss of correction, patient discomfort, and unplanned revision surgery.
The ability to quantitate rod integrity at each lengthening would be advantageous to avoid this complication.
We investigate the feasibility of applying structural health monitoring to evaluate the integrity of growing rods in vitro.
Single-rod titanium 4.5-mm growing rod constructs (n = 9), one screw proximally and one distally connected by in-line connectors, were assembled with pedicle screws fixed in polyethylene blocks.
Proximal and distal ends were loaded and constructs subjected to cyclic axial compression (0-100 N at 1 Hz), with incrementally increasing maximum compressive loads of 10 N every 9k cycles until failure.
Four piezoceramic transducers (PZTs) were mounted along the length the constructs to interrogate the integrity of the rods with an ultrasonic, guided lamb wave approach.
Every 9k cycles, an 80 V excitatory voltage was applied to a PZT to generate high-frequency vibrations, which, after propagating through the construct, was detected by the remaining PZTs.
Amplitude differences between pre- and postload waveform signals were calculated until rod failure.
Average construct lifetime was 88,991 ± 13,398 cycles.
All constructs failed due to rod fracture within 21 mm (mean = 15 ± 4.5 mm) of a screw or connector.
Amplitude differences between pre- and postload increased in a stepwise fashion as constructs were cycled.
Compared to baseline, we found a 1.8 ± 0.6-fold increase in amplitude 18k cycles before failure, a 2.2 ± 1.0-fold increase in amplitude 9k cycles before failure, and a 2.75 ± 1.5-fold increase in amplitude immediately before rod fracture.
We describe a potential method for assessing the structural integrity of growing rods using ultrasonic structural health monitoring.
These preliminary data demonstrate the ability of periodic rod assessment to detect structural changes in cycled growing rods, which appear to correspond to subclinical rod fatigue before rod fracture.
The microstructure, mechanical properties (tensile, fatigue, etc.) and the anisotropies of the Al-Mg alloy fabricated by wire arc additive manufacturing are studied in this work.
The results show that the microstructure of the deposited alloy is composed of coarse columnar grains in the inner-layer region and fine equiaxed grains in the interlayer region.
The tensile and fatigue properties exhibit strong anisotropies.
The ultimate tensile strength (258 MPa), yield strength (140 MPa), elongation (21.3%), and fatigue life (2.56 × 10
Bulk metallic glasses (BMGs) possess attractive properties for biomedical applications, including high strength, hardness and corrosion resistance, and low elastic modulus.
In this study, we conduct rotating beam fatigue tests on Pd43Ni10Cu27P20 bulk metallic glass in air and Eagle's medium (EM) and measure the corrosive resistance of the alloy by submersion in acidic and basic electrolytes.
Fatigue results are compared to those of commonly used biometals in EM.
Rotating beam fatigue tests conducted in air and in Eagle's medium show no deterioration in fatigue properties in this potentially corrosive environment out to 10(7) cycles.
A specimen size effect is revealed when comparing fatigue results to those of a similar alloy of larger minimum dimensions.
Corrosion tests show that the alloy is not affected by highly basic (NaOH) or saline (NaCl) solutions, nor in EM, and is affected by chlorinated acidic solutions (HCl) to a lesser extent than other commonly used biometals.
Corrosion in HCl initiates with selective leaching of late transition metals, followed by dissolution of Pd.
For over two decades, vascular stents have been widely used to treat clogged vessels, serving as a scaffold to enlarge the narrowed lumen and recover the arterial flow area.
High-purity oligocrystalline austenitic steel is usually applied for the production of stents.
Despite the popularity and benefit of stenting, it still may cause serious clinical adverse issues, such as in-stent restenosis and stent fracture.
Therefore, the study of the mechanical properties of stents and in particular the prediction of their life cycles are in the focus of materials research.
In our contribution, within the finite element method, a two-scale model of crack initiation in the microstructure of stents is elaborated.
The approach is developed on the basis of the physically based Tanaka-Mura model (TMM), considering the evolution of shear bands during the crack initiation phase.
The model allows for the analysis of the microstructure with respect to the life cycles of real materials.
The effects of different loading conditions, grain orientation, and thickness of the specimen on Wöhler curves were analysed.
It was found that the microstructural features of oligocrystals are very sensitive to different loading conditions with respect to their fatigue behaviour and play a major role in fatigue crack initiation.
Different grain-orientation distributions result in qualitative and quantitative differences in stress distribution and in the number of cycles for crack initiation.
It was found that presence of a neutral zone in the cut-out of the microstructure under three-point-bending loading conditions changes the qualitative and quantitative patterns of stress distribution and affects the number of cycles for crack initiation.
It was found that under both tensile and bending loading conditions, thicker specimens require more cycles for crack initiation.
The Wöhler curves for crack initiation in oligocrystalline microstructures of stents could be compared with the ones in the experiment, taking into account that for high cyclic fatigue (HCF), typically, more than 70% of the cycles refer to crack initiation.
The developed numerical tools could be used for the material design of stents.
This work begins to explore the influence of cycling rate and environment on fatigue testing of dental implants according to the ISO protocol 14801.
Twenty-four Straumann implants (4.1 mm x 12 mm) were tested up to five million cycles per ISO 14801: loaded at either 2 or 30 Hz in room air at 25 degrees C or normal saline at 37 degrees C (n=6 per group).
Implant displacements/cycle were captured during all testing.
Fracture-surface features were examined using scanning electron microscopy (n=12).
Two complimentary methods were developed to estimate fatigue crack growth rates.
Failures (bulk fracture) were found to be bi-modally distributed, either <350,000 cycles or >1.5 million cycles at both cycling rates.
Following initial crack formation, fatigue crack growth required merely 1100-4200 cycles to failure.
Initial crack pop-in was statistically more likely under 2 Hz than 30 Hz (chi(2), p<0.05) but testing in air and normal saline were equivalent in terms of likelihood of fracture versus runout (chi(2), p>0.6).
On a microscopic level, fatigue crack growth rates appears to be similar at 2 and 30 Hz, but may be slower in the presence of saline versus dry at 2 Hz.
Implant failure under fatigue conditions involved "classic" damage mechanisms.
Failure appears more likely at 2 Hz than 30 Hz for reasons that remain to be elucidated.
Saline may enable chemically assisted crack growth involving grain boundaries during the stage of fatigue crack growth, but did not influence likelihood of failure.
Femoral component neck fracture is an uncommon type of failure in total hip arthroplasty.
We present a report on 4 retrieved cobalt-chrome femoral components that fractured at the neck, where we investigated the mechanisms of failure.
The 4 retrieved implants were analyzed with regard to their macro- and microstructures and the fracture surfaces were examined using electron microscopy.
The medical record of each patient was also examined for any history of complications prior to failure of the implant.
These fractures occurred immediately adjacent to the base of the modular head.
Skirted modular heads were used in 3 of the 4 failed components.
Cyclic fatigue-loading in combination with the material factors of course grain microstructure and extensive carbide precipitation along the grain boundaries were also identified as the cause of implant failure.
Our findings suggest that a solution annealing step could be introduced into the manufacturing process to improve the microstructure of the cobalt chrome alloy.
We also advise caution in using a skirted modular head in combination with a device of known suboptimum microstructure, for a greater margin of safety.
To examine the fatigue behaviour using a strain-life approach, and to determine the effect of water on the fatigue life of a NiTi rotary instrument.
Instruments of one brand of NiTi engine-file (size 25, ProFile 0.04 and 0.06) were subjected to rotational bending either in air or under water, the number of revolutions to fracture (N(f)) being recorded using an optical counter and an electronic break-detection circuit.
The effective surface strain amplitude (epsilon(a)) for each specimen was determined from the curvature of the instrument (on a photograph) and the diameter of the fracture cross-section (from a scanning electron micrograph of the fracture surface).
Strain was plotted against fatigue life and the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) region identified.
Values were examined using two-way analysis of variance for difference between various instrument-environment combinations.
A total of 212 instruments were tested.
A strain-life relationship typical of metals was found.
N(f) declined with an inverse power function dependence on epsilon(a).
A fatigue limit was present at about 0.7% strain.
The apparent fatigue-ductility exponent, a material constant for the LCF life of metals, was found to be between -0.45 and -0.55.
There was a significant effect of the environmental condition on the LCF life, water being more detrimental than air.
The fatigue behaviour of NiTi rotary instrument is typical of most metals, provided that the analysis is based on the surface strain amplitude, and showed a high-cycle and a LCF region.
The LCF life is adversely affected by water.
Recently, materials with complicated environmentally-sensitive abilities, high stretchability and excellent conductive sensitivity are interesting actuators in future applications.
Herein, we fabricated a versatile and facile polyvinyl alcohol/polyacrylic acid/dialdehyde cellulose nanofibrils-Fe
We aimed to investigate the fatigue strength of Co-Cr-Mo clasps for removable partial dentures prepared by selective laser melting (SLM).
The Co-Cr-Mo alloy specimens for tensile tests (dumbbell specimens) and fatigue tests (clasp specimens) were prepared by SLM with varying angles between the building and longitudinal directions (i.e., 0° (TL0, FL0), 45° (TL45, FL45), and 90° (TL90, FL90)).
The clasp specimens were subjected to cyclic deformations of 0.25mm and 0.50mm for 10(6) cycles.
The SLM specimens showed no obvious mechanical anisotropy in tensile tests and exhibited significantly higher yield strength and ultimate tensile strength than the cast specimens under all conditions.
In contrast, a high degree of anisotropy in fatigue performance associated with the build orientation was found.
For specimens under the 0.50mm deflection, FL90 exhibited significantly longer fatigue life (205,418 cycles) than the cast specimens (112,770 cycles).
In contrast, the fatigue lives of FL0 (28,484 cycles) and FL45 (43,465 cycles) were significantly shorter.
The surface roughnesses of FL0 and FL45 were considerably higher than those of the cast specimens, whereas there were no significant differences between FL90 and the cast specimens.
Electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) analysis indicated the grains of FL0 showed preferential close to <001> orientation of the γ phase along the normal direction to the fracture surface.
In contrast, the FL45 and FL90 grains showed no significant preferential orientation.
Fatigue strength may therefore be affected by a number of factors, including surface roughness and crystal orientation.
The SLM process is a promising candidate for preparing tough removable partial denture frameworks, as long as the appropriate build direction is adopted.
Fatigue initiation and the propagation of microcracks in a cortical bone is an initial phase of damage development that may ultimately lead to the formation of macroscopic fractures and failure of the bone.
In this work, a time-resolved high-resolution X-ray micro-computed tomography (CT) was performed to investigate the system of microcracks in a bone sample loaded by a simulated gait cycle.
A low-cycle (1000 cycles) fatigue loading in compression with a 900 N peak amplitude and a 0.4 Hz frequency simulating the slow walk for the initialization of the internal damage of the bone was used.
An in-house developed laboratory X-ray micro-CT imaging system coupled with a compact loading device were employed for the in situ uni-axial fatigue experiments reaching a μ2μm effective voxel size.
To reach a comparable quality of the reconstructed 3D images with the SEM microscopy, projection-level corrections and focal spot drift correction were performed prior to the digital volume correlation and evaluation using differential tomography for the identification of the individual microcracks in the microstructure.
The microcracks in the intact bone, the crack formation after loading, and the changes in the topology of the microcracks were identified on a volumetric basis in the microstructure of the bone.
Porous titanium and its alloys are believed to be one of the most attractive biomaterials for orthopedic implant applications.
In the present work, porous pure titanium with 50-70% porosity and different pore size was fabricated by diffusion bonding.
Compression fatigue behavior was systematically studied along the out-of-plane direction.
It resulted that porous pure titanium has anisotropic pore structure and the microstructure is fine-grained equiaxed α phase with a few twins in some α grains.
Porosity and pore size have some effect on the S-N curve but this effect is negligible when the fatigue strength is normalized by the yield stress.
The relationship between normalized fatigue strength and fatigue life conforms to a power law.
The compression fatigue behavior is characteristic of strain accumulation.
Porous titanium experiences uniform deformation throughout the entire sample when fatigue cycle is lower than a critical value (N
Ultrasonic fatigue tests of TC4 titanium alloy equiaxed I, II and bimodal I, II obtained by different forging processes were carried out in the range from 10
In the field of long-life fatigue, predicting fatigue lives and limits for mechanical components is crucial for ensuring reliability and safety.
Fracture mechanics tools have enabled the estimation of fatigue lives for components with small cracks or defects.
However, when dealing with defects larger than the microstructural characteristic size, estimating the fatigue resistance of a material requires determining the cyclic resistance curve for the defect-free matrix, which depends on knowledge of the material's intrinsic fatigue limit.
This study focuses on the experimental evidence regarding the intrinsic fatigue limit and its correlation with naturally nucleated non-propagating cracks.
Fracture mechanics models for small crack propagation are introduced, and their disparities and limitations are analyzed.
The concept of intrinsic fatigue limit is then introduced and applied to reanalyze a recent publication.
Methods for estimating the intrinsic fatigue limit are explored and applied to experimental results reported in the literature.
The need to clarify and accurately predict the intrinsic fatigue limit is highlighted in alloys where the processing generates defects larger than the microstructural size of the matrix, as often observed in materials and components produced using additive manufacturing.
A processing technology has been developed that can be applied to many different fine wire medical alloys to improve their fatigue properties.
This technology has been used to process a low inclusion alloy, 35 cobalt-35 nitinol-20 chromium-10 Molybdenum (ASTM F562 chemistry), hereinafter referred to as System A.
After processing, this ultra fine microstructure exhibited relatively high yield strength, good axial ductility and a fatigue limit of 1 GPa at a fatigue lifetime that exceeded 100 million cycles, as reported here.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a neuro-degenerative and -inflammatory disease leading to physical and cognitive impairment, pathological fatigue and depression, and affecting patients' quality of life and employment status.
The combination of inflammation, demyelination, and neurodegeneration leads to the emergence of MS lesions, reduced white and gray matter brain volumes, a reduced conduction velocity and microstructural changes in the so-called Normal Appearing White Matter (NAWM).
Currently, there are very limited options to treat cognitive impairment and its origin is only poorly understood.
Therefore, several studies have attempted to relate clinical scores with features calculated either using T1- and/or FLAIR weighted MR images or using neurophysiology.
The aim of those studies is not only to provide an improved understanding of the processes that underlie the different symptoms, but also to develop a biomarker-sensitive to therapy induced change-that could be used to speed up therapeutic developments (e.g., cognitive training/drug discovery/…).
Here, we provide an overview of studies that have established relationships between either neuro-anatomical or neurophysiological measures and cognitive outcome scores.
We discuss different avenues that may help to improve the prediction of cognitive impairment, and how well we can expect them to predict cognitive scores.
Self-healing polymeric coatings represent a transformative class of smart materials capable of autonomously or stimuli-responsively repairing mechanical or environmental damage, thereby significantly extending the operational lifespan of protected substrates.
This review systematically elucidates the underlying mechanisms and chemistries enabling self-healing behavior, encompassing both extrinsic strategies such as microcapsules, microvascular networks, and corrosion inhibitor reservoirs and intrinsic approaches based on dynamic covalent (e.g., disulfide exchange, Diels-Alder, imine, transesterification/vitrimer networks) and supramolecular interactions (e.g., hydrogen bonding, metal-ligand coordination, ionic, and host-guest systems).
Emphasis is placed on recent advances in external stimuli-responsive systems triggered by heat, light, moisture, pH, electricity, or magnetic fields.
The performance of these coatings under extreme conditions, including corrosive media, marine environments, thermal cycling, mechanical fatigue, and high-voltage fields, is critically evaluated.
Furthermore, this review highlights industrial translation through commercial exemplars (e.g., NANOMYTE® MEND, BASF Elastocoat, Baydur HC, FEYNLAB), scalable fabrication routes (spray coating, dip-coating, UV-curing, and 3D/4D printing), and alignment with sustainability goals.
Challenges such as multifunctional integration, interfacial adhesion, regulatory compliance, and the need for standardized evaluation metrics are discussed.
Finally, future directions in predictive molecular design and high-throughput screening are outlined to accelerate the development of next-generation self-healing coatings (SHC) across diverse Asian industrial sectors.
Titanium and its alloys have many attractive properties including high specific strength, low density, and excellent corrosion resistance.
Besides, titanium and the Ti6Al4V alloy have long been recognized as materials with high biocompatibility.
These properties have led to the use of these materials in biomedical applications.
Despite these advantages, the lack of good wear resistance makes difficult the use of titanium and Ti6Al4V in some biomedical applications, like articulating components of prostheses.
Some surface treatments are available in order to correct these problems, like thermal surface treatment by means of nitrogen gaseous diffusion at high temperature.
Nitrogen enters into the material by diffusion, creating a surface layer of increased hardness.
Low cycle fatigue behavior in air of Ti6Al4V alloy has been studied.
Results show a reduction of low cycle fatigue life up to 10% compared to the not-treated material. Studies suggest it is not related to the titanium nitride surface layer, but to microstructural changes caused by the high temperature treatment.
This work introduced additively manufactured non-assembly, miniaturized pin-joints for pantographic metamaterials as perfect pivots.
The titanium alloy Ti6Al4V was utilized with laser powder bed fusion technology.
The pin-joints were produced using optimized process parameters required for manufacturing miniaturized joints, and they were printed at a particular angle to the build platform.
Additionally, this process optimization will eliminate the requirement to geometrically compensate the computer-aided design model, allowing for even further miniaturization.
In this work, pin-joint lattice structures known as pantographic metamaterials were taken into consideration.
The mechanical behavior of the metamaterial was characterized by bias extension tests and cyclic fatigue experiments, showing superior levels of performance (no sign of fatigue for 100 cycles of an elongation of approximately 20%) in comparison to classic pantographic metamaterials made with rigid pivots.
The individual pin-joints, with a pin diameter of 350 to 670 µm, were analyzed using computed tomography scans, indicating that the mechanism of the rotational joint functions well even though the clearance of 115 to 132 µm between the moving parts is comparable to the nominal spatial resolution of the printing process.
Our findings emphasize new possibilities to develop novel mechanical metamaterials with actual moving joints on a small scale.
The results will also support stiffness-optimized metamaterials with variable-resistance torque for non-assembly pin-joints in the future.
This work investigates methods for predicting low-cycle fatigue life by employing new energy-based fatigue damage measures.
The primary goal of this research is to evaluate whether fatigue life can be predicted based on an energy accumulation graph, proposed as a generalization of the isodamage lines concept.
The efficiency of fatigue life predictions using this approach, derived from the empirical linear Palmgren-Miner hypothesis, is compared against the physically grounded Unified Mechanics Theory thermodynamic approach, which allows for general understanding of material degradation, in contrast to empirical approaches.
The study also accounts for the influence of anisotropy resulting from the sheet rolling process on the fatigue response of S420M steel.
Samples were tested in orientations both parallel to the rolling direction and perpendicular to the sheet surface.
Microstructural analysis revealed a visible banded structure in the perpendicular samples, which is a consequence of anisotropy.
The fatigue life of samples taken perpendicular to the sheet surface was lower than that of parallel samples.
Verification of the linear Palmgren-Miner damage summation hypothesis, using both the classical fatigue chart and the cumulative energy chart, resulted in calculated fatigue life consistently higher than the experimental fatigue life in all cases.
The reduction in fatigue life ranged from 40% (for total strain amplitude equal to 1.0%) to almost 290% for a strain amplitude of 0.25%.
A comparative analysis of the unit loop energy shows that at all tested levels of strain amplitude, the unit loop energy of parallel samples is higher than that of samples perpendicular to the surface.
Discrete, well-defined metallacycles and metallacages with stimuli-responsive behaviors have been largely predominated by the organic donor/metal acceptor paradigm with spontaneous formation of coordination bonds.
However, light-driven self-assembly systems usually show relatively low utilization yield of photons and low fatigue resistance.
Given that almost no example illustrates the different self-assembly behaviors of antiparallel and parallel conformers in the traditional photochromic diarylethene (DAE) system, here we have for the first time constructed a unique series of photoactive conformer-dependent metallacycles, focusing on the characterization and comparison of self-assembly behavior in different ligand conformers with different di-platinum(ii) acceptors.
Their photoswitchable scaffold sizes and shapes are precisely controlled by photochromically separable parallel or anti-parallel conformers
Traditional fatigue fracture theory and practice focus principally on structural design.
It is thus too conservative and inappropriate when used to predict the high-cycle fatigue life of dies used for metal forming, especially cold forging.
We propose a novel mean stress correction model and diagram to predict the high-cycle fatigue lives of cold forging dies, which focuses on the upper part of the equivalent fatigue strength curve.
Considering the features of die materials characterized by high yield strength and low ductility, a straight line is assumed for the tensile yield line.
To the contrary, a general curve is used to represent the fatigue strength.
They are interpolated, based on the distance ratio, when finding an appropriate equivalent fatigue strength curve at the mean stress and stress amplitude between the line and curve.
The approach is applied to a well-defined literature example to verify its validity and shed light on the characteristics of die fatigue life.
The approach is also applied to practical forging and useful qualitative results are obtained.
In this study, the effects of post-weld heat treatment (PWHT) on residual stress distribution and fatigue crack propagation (FCP) behavior in linear friction welded (LFW) Ti-6Al-4V joints were investigated.
Microstructural evolution in the weld center zone (WCZ), thermomechanically affected zone (TMAZ), heat-affected zone (HAZ), and base metal (BM) was characterized using scanning electron microscropy (SEM) and electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD).
Mechanical properties were evaluated via Vickers hardness testing and digital image correlation (DIC)-based tensile testing.
Residual stresses before and after PWHT were measured using the contour method.
The LFW process introduced significant residual stresses, with tensile stresses up to 709.2 MPa in the WCZ, resulting in non-uniform fatigue crack growth behavior.
PWHT at 650 °C and 750 °C effectively reduced these stresses.
After PWHT, fatigue cracks propagated uniformly across the weld region, enabling reliable determination of crack growth rates.
The average crack growth rates of the heat-treated specimens were comparable to those of the base metal, confirming that PWHT, particularly at 750 °C, stabilizes the fatigue crack path and relieves internal stress.
To develop a new manufacturing process for total knee arthroplasty (TKA) femoral components, we investigated the effects of fine microstructures and precipitates on the wear rate of ultrahigh-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) inserts against a laser-sintered Co-28Cr-6Mo alloy femoral component measured using a knee joint simulator.
The tensile and fatigue strengths of the laser-sintered Co-28Cr-6Mo alloy were higher than those of cast Co-28Cr-6Mo and aged Zr-2.5Nb alloys.
The laser-sintered Co-28Cr-6Mo alloy had finer microstructures and precipitates of the pi (π)-phase [(Cr, Mo)
The paper presents the original results of cyclic testing of materials that are identical in chemical composition but produced by two different technologies: conventional metallurgy and additive manufacturing.
For the aluminium alloy AlSi10Mg and the austenitic steel 316L, tensile curves, tension-compression and torsion alternating fatigue curves are experimentally obtained and presented.
The experimental results are compared for two fabrication technologies-conventional metallurgy and additive DLMS technology.
The results indicate a significant effect of anisotropy on the fatigue performance of the AM materials and a different slope of the fatigue life curves in the cyclic torsion versus cyclic tension-compression.
The static and, in particular, the fatigue properties of both materials are discussed in relation to the microstructure of the materials after conventional production and after additive manufacturing.
This comparison allowed us to explain both the causes of the anisotropy of the AM materials and the different slope of the curves for normal and shear stresses under cyclic loading.
Using the example of the strength assessment of bicycle frames, the possibility of progressively wider use of additive manufacturing for load-bearing structures is presented.
The aim of this study was to investigate the surface deterioration of high-Cr roll steel caused by the spalling of larger particles during thermal fatigue.
The mechanisms of surface deterioration due to spalling of larger particles are discussed.
Using a laboratory thermal fatigue test that replicates hot rolling conditions, samples were tested cyclically (up to 4500 times) at maximum cycle temperatures of 500, 600 and 700 °C, followed by water cooling.
Specimens with surface deterioration were selected for analysis, revealing important influencing parameters, i.e., the combination of test temperatures, chemical composition, thermal stress and microstructural properties, leading to oxidation-assisted crack growth in different directions and consequent surface deterioration due to early spalling of larger particles.
Here, we describe the mechanisms of crack propagation, especially in the lateral direction, and their relation to the subsequent spalling of larger particles, which depend on the influence of the local chemical composition on the microstructural constituents, as well as their distribution and properties.
The results obtained in this study can be used in the development of roll steel microstructures with improved resistance to the identified mechanisms of surface degradation.
The size and the character (low and large angle, special boundaries, tilt and twist boundaries, twins) of the grain boundaries (GBs) in polycrystalline materials influence their strength and their fracture toughness.
Recent studies devoted to nanocrystalline (NC) materials have shown a deviation from the Hall-Petch law.
Special GBs formed by Σ3 twins in face-centred cubic metals are also known to have a strong effect on the mechanical behaviour of these metals, in particular their work-hardening rate.
Grain orientation influences also crack path, the fracture toughness of body-centred cubic (BCC) metals and the fatigue crack growth rate of microstructurally short cracks.
This paper deals both with slip transfer at GBs and with the interactions between propagating cracks with GBs.
In the analysis of slip transfer, the emphasis is placed on twin boundaries (TBs) for which the dislocation reactions during slip transfer are analysed theoretically, experimentally and using the results of atomic molecular simulations published in the literature.
It is shown that in a number of situations this transfer leads to a normal motion of the TB owing to the displacement of partial dislocations along the TB.
This motion can generate a de-twinning effect observed in particular in NC metals.
Crack propagation across GBs is also considered.
It is shown that cleavage crack path behaviour in BCC metals is largely dependent on the twist component of the GBs.
A mechanism for the propagation of these twisted cracks involving a segmentation of the crack front and the existence of intergranular parts is discussed and verified for a pressure vessel steel.
A similar segmentation seems to occur for short fatigue cracks although, quite surprisingly, this crossing mechanism for fatigue cracks does not seem to have been examined in very much detail in the literature.
Metallurgical methods used to improve the strength of the materials, via grain boundaries, are briefly discussed.
Stretchable and resilient conductive hydrogels, incorporating flowable liquid metals (LM) into polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), have emerged as promising materials for wearable sensors due to their exceptional mechanical properties and sustainability.
However, the fluidity and compatibility of LM with the hydrogel matrix limit the construction and performance of LM/PVA conductive hydrogels.
This study aimed to develop a flexible, high-performance hydrogel for advanced wearable sensors by introducing LM nanoparticles encapsulated in sodium lignosulfonate (LS-LM) into the PVA matrix.
The renewable natural macromolecule LS, rich in functional groups, enhanced the compatibility between LM and the PVA matrix.
Moreover, LS formed a stable shell around the LM droplets, preventing rupture and leakage of LM, ensuring uniform dispersion within the hydrogel and significantly improving its durability by preventing phase separation.
The optimized conductive lignosulfonate-liquid metal/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (LS-LM/PVA) exhibited a tensile stress of 1.60 MPa, a compressive strength of 0.53 MPa under 70 % strain, and electrical conductivity (4.87 S m
Laser additively manufactured (LAM) Ti-6Al-4V alloy has huge application potential in aerospace structural parts such as turbine blades.
However, there are few studies on the fatigue properties of such LAM parts under vibration loading, particularly with regard to anisotropy.
In this paper, vibration fatigue properties of LAM Ti-6Al-4V by laser melted deposition were investigated along the transversely deposited (TD) and parallelly deposited (PD) directions.
Through the first-order bending vibration experiments, the LAM Ti-6Al-4V alloy exhibits obvious anisotropic fatigue properties and significant dispersion in fracture position.
The fracture morphology analysis reveals that the vibration fatigue failure was mainly dominated by process-induced defects and microstructure.
The fatigue strength at 10
Perovskite solar cells have achieved rapid progress in the new-generation photovoltaic field, but the commercialization lags behind owing to the device stability issue under operational conditions.
Ultimately, the instability issue is attributed to the soft lattice of ionic perovskite crystal. In brief, metal halide perovskite materials are susceptible to structural instability processes, including phase segregation, component loss, lattice distortion, and fatigue failure under harsh external stimuli such as high humidity, strong irradiation, wide thermal cycles, and large stress.
Developing self-healing perovskites to further improve the unsatisfactory operational stability of their photoelectric devices under harsh stimuli has become a cutting-edge hotspot in this field.
This self-healing behavior needs to be studied more comprehensively.
Therefore, the self-healing behavior of the metal halide perovskites and photovoltaics is classified and summarized in this review.
By discussing recent advances, underlying mechanisms, strategies, and existing challenges, this review provides perspectives on self-healing of perovskite solar cells in the future.
In this study, we examine the mechanism of fatigue-crack propagation in 718Plus superalloy at 704 °C under fatigue-creep-environment interactions, in this case, a new turbine disc material used in aero-engines at high temperatures.
The effect of creep on the fatigue-crack propagation of the superalloy at high temperature was also researched.
There was an unusual inhibitory effect on the propagation of fatigue cracks in 718Plus alloy, in which the propagation rate of fatigue cracks decreased with the increase of creep time through exploration of dwell-fatigue-crack growth (DFCG) test with different creep times.
In particular, under lower stress intensity factor range (Δ
To evaluate the reliability and failure modes of ultrathin (0.5 mm) lithium disilicate, translucent and ultra-translucent zirconia crowns for posterior teeth restorations.
Fifty-four mandibular first molar crowns of three ceramic materials: (1) Lithium disilicate (e.max CAD, Ivoclar Vivadent), (2) 3Y-TZP (Zirconn Translucent, Vipi), and (3) 5Y-PSZ (Cercon XT, Dentsply Sirona), with 0.5 mm of thickness were milled and cemented onto composite resin abutments.
Eighteen samples of each group were tested under mouth-motion step-stress accelerated life testing in a humid environment using mild, moderate, and aggressive profiles.
Data was subjected to Weibull statistics.
Use level curves were plotted and reliability was calculated for a given mission of 100,000 cycles at 100, 200, and 300 N.
Fractographic analyses of representative samples were performed in scanning electron microscope.
Beta (β) values suggest that failures were dictated by material's strength for lithium disilicate and by fatigue damage accumulation for both zirconias.
No significant differences were detected in Weibull modulus and characteristic strength among groups.
At a given mission of 100,000 cycles at 100 N, lithium disilicate presented higher reliability (98% CB: 95-99) regarding 3Y-TZP and 5Y-PSZ groups (84% CB: 65%-93% and 79% CB: 37&-94%, respectively).
At 200 N, lithium disilicate reliability (82% CB: 66%-91%) was higher than 5Y-PSZ (20% CB: 4%-44%) and not significantly different from 3Y-TZP (54% CB: 32%-72%).
Furthermore, at 300 N no significant differences in reliability were detected among groups, with a notable reduction in the reliability of all materials.
Fractographic analyses showed that crack initiated at the interface between the composite core and the ceramic crowns due to tensile stress generated at the intaglio surface.
Ultrathin lithium disilicate crowns demonstrated higher reliability relative to zirconia crowns at functional loads.
Lithium disilicate and zirconia crown's reliability decreased significantly for missions at higher loads and similar failure modes were observed regardless of crown material. The indication of 0.5 mm thickness crowns in high-load bearing regions must be carefully evaluated.
Ultraconservative lithium disilicate and zirconia crowns of 0.5 mm thickness may be indicated in anterior restorations and pre-molars.
Their clinical indication in high-load requirement regions must be carefully evaluated.
Integrating machine learning into additive manufacturing offers transformative opportunities to optimize material properties and design high-performance, fatigue-resistant structures for critical applications in aerospace, biomedical, and structural engineering.
This study explores mechanistic machine learning techniques to tailor microstructural features, leveraging data from ultrasonic fatigue tests where very high cycle fatigue properties were assessed up to 1×1010 cycles.
Machine learning models predicted critical fatigue thresholds, optimized process parameters, and reduced design iteration cycles by over 50%, leading to faster production of safer, more durable components.
By refining grain orientation and phase uniformity, fatigue crack propagation resistance improved by 20-30%, significantly enhancing fatigue life and reliability for mission-critical aerospace components, such as turbine blades and structural airframe parts, in an industry where failure is not an option.
Additionally, the machine learning-driven design of metamaterials enabled structures with a 15% weight reduction and improved yield strength, demonstrating the feasibility of bioinspired geometries for lightweight applications in space exploration, medical implants, and high-performance automotive components.
In the area of titanium and aluminum alloys, machine learning identified key process parameters such as temperature gradients and cooling rates, which govern microstructural evolution and enable fatigue-resistant designs tailored for high-stress environments in aircraft, biomedical prosthetics, and high-speed transportation.
Combining theoretical insights and experimental validations, this research highlights the potential of machine learning to refine microstructural properties and establish intelligent, adaptive manufacturing systems, ensuring enhanced reliability, performance, and efficiency in cutting-edge engineering applications.
In orthopedic surgery, different self-mating metal couples are used for sliding wear applications.
Despite the fact that in mechanical engineering, self-mating austenitic alloys often lead to adhesion and seizure in biomedical engineering, the different grades of Co-base alloys show good clinical results, e.g., as hip joints.
The reason stems from the fact that they generate a so-called tribomaterial during articulation, which consists of a mixture of nanometer small metallic grains and organic substances from the interfacial medium, which act as a boundary lubricant.
Even though stainless steel also generate such a tribomaterial, they were ruled out from the beginning already in the 1950s as "inappropriate".
On the basis of materials with a clinical track record, this contribution shows that the cyclic creep characteristics within the shear zone underneath the tribomaterial are another important criterion for a sufficient wear behavior.
By means of sliding wear and torsional fatigue tests followed by electron microscopy, it is shown that austenitic materials generate wear particles of either nano- or of microsize.
The latter are produced by crack initiation and propagation within the shear fatigue zone which is related to the formation of subsurface dislocation cells and, therefore, by the fact that an Ni-containing CrNiMo solid solution allows for wavy-slip.
In contrast to this, an Ni-free CrMnMo solid solution with further additions of C and N only shows planar slip.
This leads to the formation of nanosize wear particles and distinctly improves the wear behavior.
Still, the latter does not fully achieve that of CoCrMo, which also shows a solely planar-slip behavior.
This explains why for metallurgical reasons the Ni-containing 316L-type of steels had to fail in such boundary lubricated sliding wear tribosystems.
Metallic dental implants are exposed to various intraoral environments and repetitive loads during service.
Relatively few studies have systematically addressed the potential influence of the environment on the mechanical integrity of the implants, which is therefore the subject of this study.
Four media (groups) were selected for room temperature testing, namely dry air, saliva substitute, same with 250ppm of fluoride, and saline solution (0.9%).
Monolithic Ti-6Al-4V implants were loaded until fracture, using random spectrum loading.
The study reveals that the only aggressive medium of all is the saline solution, as it shortens significantly the spectrum fatigue life of the implants.
The quantitative scanning electron fractographic analysis indicates that all the tested implants grew fatigue cracks of similar lengths prior to catastrophic fracture.
However, the average crack growth rate in the saline medium was found to largely exceed that in other media, suggesting a decreased fracture toughness.
The notion of a characteristic timescale for environmental degradation was proposed to explain the results of our spectrum tests that blend randomly low and high cycle fatigue.
Random spectrum fatigue testing is powerful technique to assess and compare the mechanical performance of dental implants for various designs and/or environments.
Pure hydroxyapatite (HA) is brittle and it cannot be directly used for the load-bearing biomedical applications.
The purpose of this investigation was to develop a new iron-containing HA/titanium composite via pressureless sintering at a relatively low temperature with particular emphasis on identifying the underlying toughening mechanisms.
The addition of iron to HA/titanium composites led to a unique and favorable core/shell microstructure of Ti-Fe particles that consisted of outer titanium and inner iron, and good interfacial bonding with HA matrix.
While the relative density, hardness and Young's modulus reduced, the flexural strength, fracture toughness, fatigue resistance, and the related fracture surface roughness increased significantly with increasing amount of Ti-Fe particles.
Different toughening mechanisms including crack bridging, branching and deflection were observed in the composites, thus effectively increasing the crack propagation resistance and resulting in a substantial improvement in the mechanical properties of the composites.
Fatigue damage behaviors of four metal materials in the very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) regime have been studied using ultrasonic fatigue test and microstructure analysis.
The results show that the fatigue crack initiation in VHCF regime could occur at subsurface non-defect fatigue crack origin (SNDFCO), where the accumulated cyclic strains or damage in the specimens were highly localized, especially in the materials with some softer phase, where the local maximum strain can be eight times higher than the average strain value in the specimen.
This high strain localization can cause a local plasticity exhaustion that leads to a stress concentration and consequently fatigue crack initiation, and finally the formation of SNDFCO.
For pure single phase austenitic material, strain localization can also occur due to dislocation accumulation at or near grain boundaries, which can become fatigue crack initiation origin in the VHCF regime.
The results in this study show that fatigue damage and crack initiation mechanisms in the VHCF regime can be different in different metals due to the mechanisms for local plasticity exhaustion.
To evaluate different resin-based composites using a variety of in vitro investigation methods to predict their clinical behavior.
Materials selected for this study were Heliomolar radiopaque (microfilled), Tetric Ceram, Pertac II (minifilled hybrids), Ariston pHc (ion releasing hybrid), and Solitaire I (hybrid with porous fillers).
The evaluated in vitro criteria were three-body wear according to the ACTA method, microtensile bond strengths to enamel and dentin, flexural strength (four-point bending strength), flexural fatigue behavior (flexural fatigue limit), and calcium ion release (for Ariston pHc).
Concerning wear resistance, Ariston pHc (20.5 microm after 200,000 cycles) was inferior to the other materials (13.7-15.9 microm).
Microtensile bond strengths to dentin were similar for Heliomolar (32.0 MPa), Tetric Ceram (30.4 MPa; both bonded with Syntac Classic), and Pertac II (30.8 MPa; bonded with EBS Multi) being above Solitaire I (22.5 MPa; bonded with Solidbond) being above Ariston pHc (13.2 MPa; bonded with Ariston Liner).
Enamel bond strengths for Heliomolar (40.0 MPa), Tetric Ceram (36.5 MPa), and Pertac II (38.9 MPa) were significantly higher than for Solitaire I (26.6 MPa) which was above Ariston pHc (7.2 MPa).
Heliomolar, Tetric Ceram, and Pertac II revealed higher micro-TBS to enamel than to dentin, Ariston showed the contrary, and Solitare exhibited no difference between enamel and dentin micro-TBS.
Solitaire I exhibited a lower initial flexural strength than the other materials, the computed fatigue strength of the material even dropped to the level of glass ionomer cements (17.9 MPa).
Long-term calcium release data for Ariston exhibited a continuously high calcium release becoming lower at the end of the observation beyond 21 months.
The study of fatigue behaviors for nickel-base superalloys is very significant because fatigue damage results in serious consequences.
In this paper, two kinds of heat treatment procedures (Pro.I and Pro.II) were taken to investigate the effect of heat treatment on microstructures and fatigue behaviors of a nickel-base superalloy.
Fatigue behaviors were studied through total strain controlled mode at 650 °C.
Manson-Coffin relationship and three-parameter power function were used to predict fatigue life.
A good link between the cyclic/fatigue behavior and microscopic studies was established.
The cyclic deformation mechanism and fatigue mechanism were discussed.
The results show that the fatigue resistance significantly drops with the increase of total strain amplitudes.
Manson-Coffin relationship can well predict the fatigue life for total strain amplitude from 0.5% to 0.8%.
The fatigue resistance is related with heat treatment procedures.
The fatigue resistance performance of Pro.I is better than that of Pro.II.
The cyclic stress response behaviors are closely related to the changes of the strain amplitudes.
The peak stress of the alloy gradually increases with the increase of total strain amplitudes.
The main fracture mechanism is inhomogeneous deformation and the different interactions between dislocations and γ' precipitates.
The microstructures of two representative high-palladium dental alloys, a Pd-Cu-Ga alloy and a Pd-Ga alloy, which had been subjected to cyclic fatigue in uniaxial tension were investigated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
Two different mechanisms were found to dominate microplastic deformation during fatigue: twinning in the Pd-Cu-Ga alloy, and planar slip of dislocations in the Pd-Ga alloy.
In addition, stress-induced precipitation occurred in the Pd-Ga alloy during cyclic loading.
Heat treatment simulating the firing cycles for dental porcelain resulted in the formation of a previously unreported bcc phase in the Pd-Cu-Ga alloy, and in the elimination of the characteristic tweed structure found in the Pd-Ga alloy for the as-cast condition.
Physical exercise is a promising intervention to improve brain white matter integrity.
In the PAM study, exercise intervention effects on white matter integrity were investigated in breast cancer patients.
Chemotherapy-treated breast cancer patients with cognitive problems were randomized 2-4 years post-diagnosis to an exercise (n = 91) or control group (n = 90).
The 6-month exercise intervention consisted of four hours/week of aerobic and resistance training.
White matter integrity was measured at baseline and 6-month follow-up with fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD), which were derived from magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI).
Both DTI metrics were analyzed whole brain and voxel-wise with a modified tract based spatial statistics (TBSS) procedure.
Other measurements included cognition and physical fitness.
Exercise effects were analyzed with multiple regression analyses.
An explorative analysis was conducted in highly fatigued patients.
DTI scans were available for 69 patients of the intervention (age = 52.3 ± 8.9yrs.) and 72 patients of the control group (age = 53.2 ± 8.6yrs.).
Whole brain and voxel-wise analyses revealed no significant intervention effects on FA and MD.
In highly fatigued patients (exercise: n = 32; control: n = 24), significant clusters of decreased FA post-intervention were observed in the left inferior and superior longitudinal fasciculus.
Mean FA in these clusters was not predictive of cognition.
A 6-month exercise intervention did not affect white matter integrity in chemotherapy-treated breast cancer patients.
However, in highly fatigued breast cancer patients a significant FA decrease was observed post-intervention.
The direction of these results is unexpected, and more research is needed to further understand these results.
It is commonly proposed that the fatigue strength can be enhanced by increasing the tensile strength, but this conclusion needs to be reconsidered according to our study.
Here a recrystallized α-Cu-15at.%Al alloy with moderate grain size of 0.62 μm was fabricated by cold rolling and annealing, and this alloy achieved exceptional high fatigue strength of 280 MPa at 10(7) cycles.
This value is much higher than the fatigue strength of 200 MPa for the nano-crystalline counterpart (0.04 μm in grain size) despite its higher tensile strength.
The remarkable improvement of fatigue strength should be mainly attributed to the microstructure optimization, which helps achieve the reduction of initial damage and the dispersion of accumulated damage.
A new strategy of "damage reduction" was then proposed for fatigue strength improvement, to supplement the former strengthening principle.
The methods and strategies summarized in this work offer a general pathway for further improvement of fatigue strength, in order to ensure the long-term safety of structural materials.
Additive manufacturing (AM) has been used to process complex one-of-a-kind patient-specific implants, along with on-demand manufacturing with innovative geometries.
AM parts are more susceptible to fatigue failure due to inherent porosities than conventionally processed parts.
This study investigates the high-cycle rotating bending fatigue behavior of laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) processed Ti6Al4V parts in as-processed and hot isostatically pressed (HIPed) conditions, and compares them to commercially available wrought Ti6Al4V.
Ti6Al4V is widely used in orthopedic and dental implants due to its high strength-to-weight ratio, good biocompatibility, and excellent corrosion resistance.
To understand the fatigue performance of Ti6Al4V parts, a custom cell was designed to fully immerse the fatigue samples in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) for the duration of the test.
The fatigue strength was normalized to the compressive yield strength, and it was found that as-processed samples had the greatest compressive strength but approximately half the relative endurance limit (10
To assess the failure mechanism of rotary NiTi instruments by chemical, structural and morphological analyses to provide a rational explanation of the effects of surface and bulk treatments on their resistance to fatigue fracture.
Thermal treatment (350-500 °C) was performed on electropolished (EP) and non-electropolished (Non-EP) NiTi endodontic instruments.
Bulk and surface chemical composition and crystallographic structures were determined by energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) to evaluate the effects of thermal treatment and electropolishing on the NiTi alloy.
Fatigue tests of all instruments were performed.
Surface morphology before and after the tests, and fractured section were analysed using scanning electron microscopy to determine crack extensions.
Results were analysed statistically using analysis of variance (anova) and post hoc Student-Newman-Keuls test.
Before thermal treatment, significant differences (P < 0.05) in fatigue resistance between EP and Non-EP instruments (the number of revolutions to failure, N(f) , was 385 and 160, respectively) were attributed to differences in the surface morphology of the instruments.
SEM analysis of the fracture surfaces indicated that flexural fatigue fractures occurred in two steps: first by a slow growth of initial cracks and then rapid rupture of the remaining material. Thermal treatment did not affect the surface morphology but resulted in significant changes in the instrument bulk with the appearance of an R-phase and an improved fatigue resistance; indeed after treatment at 500 °C, N(f) increased up to 829 and 474 for EP and Non-EP instruments, respectively.
Both thermal treatment and electropolishing improved the resistance of NiTi rotary instruments against fatigue fracture.
Failure diagnosis invariably involves consideration of both associated material condition and the results of a mechanical analysis of prior operating history.
This Review focuses on these aspects with particular reference to creep-fatigue failure diagnosis.
Creep-fatigue cracking can be due to a spectrum of loading conditions ranging from pure cyclic to mainly steady loading with infrequent off-load transients.
These require a range of mechanical analysis approaches, a number of which are reviewed.
The microstructural information revealing material condition can vary with alloy class.
In practice, the detail of the consequent cracking mechanism(s) can be camouflaged by oxidation at high temperatures, although the presence of oxide on fracture surfaces can be used to date events leading to failure.
Routine laboratory specimen post-test examination is strongly recommended to characterise the detail of deformation and damage accumulation under known and well-controlled loading conditions to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of failure diagnosis.
Research on high-performance Ti alloys incorporating oxygen (O) has remained a laboratory procedure and is hindered by the unresolved issue of O segregation-driven failure.
Here, we demonstrate that O can tailor a nanoscale local range order O (LRO-O) structure between the oxide and random interstitials in Ti alloy.
We introduce 0.36 wt% O into metastable Ti-5Al-5Mo-5V-3Cr alloy using a short-term powder metallurgy approach to produces large-scale materials.
The LRO-O structure in designed alloy prevents crack initiation by promoting the active nucleation of <c>-type dislocations and altering the slip modes during tensile and fatigue failure.
The alloy has high strength (1.7 GPa), elongation (7.9%), and fatigue strength (1058.3 MPa), which outperforms many high-strength, high-O Ti alloys.
Our findings provide a scalable, practical route to superior mechanical properties for Ti alloys without costly alloying elements.
The implementation of high-safety Li metal batteries (LMBs) needs more stable and safer electrolytes.
The solid-state electrolytes (SSEs) with their advantageous properties stand out for this purpose.
However, low Li/electrolyte interfacial instability and uncontrolled Li dendrites growth trigger unceasing breakage of the solid electrolyte interphase (SEI), leading to fast capacity degradation.
In response to these shortcomings, a new type of polymer electrolyte with self-healing capacity is introduced by grafting ionic liquid chain units into the backbones of polymers, which inherits the chemical inertness against the Li anode, allowing high Li
Highly cross-linked polyethylenes (HXLPEs) have been incorporated into the hip replacement armamentarium based on their improved wear resistance.
However, two different methods of thermal treatment separate the orthopedic community as strategies to control potential long-term oxidation, and controversy remains with problems in the long-term use of acetabular liners (long-term oxidation, rim fracture after impingement, etc.).
Meanwhile, the mechanical properties of HXLPEs that may alleviate these problems are still unclear.
On the other hand, HXLPEs are scarcely used in knee replacements, as there exists concern about the probably reduced fatigue and fracture performances of these materials.
Thus, our aim was to compare the effects of both thermal treatment regimes on mechanical properties and to associate these findings with the material microstructure.
The fatigue behavior of annealed and remelted HXLPEs was characterized using short-term cyclic stress-strain, long-term fatigue, and fatigue crack propagation tests.
On the other hand, impact tests, tensile experiments, and the J-integral multispecimen method allowed us to assess toughness.
Microstructure features such as crosslink density, crystallinity percentage, and lamellar thickness were investigated by swelling measurements, differential scanning calorimetry, and transmission electron microscopy, respectively.
This study confirms that annealing preserves mechanical properties better than remelting from both fatigue and fracture resistance points of view, and it remarks that a suitable selection of irradiation and stabilization conditions is needed to achieve optimal mechanical performances of ultra high molecular weight polyethylenes for each specific total joint replacement.
The flexibility and fracture resistance of nickel-titanium (NiTi) files have revolutionised root canal preparation-but file fractures caused by cyclic fatigue or torsional failure are challenging.
Thermal pretreatments aim to improve fatigue resistance.
This study compared the cyclic fatigue resistance (CFR) of four novel reciprocating NiTi file systems with low- versus high-temperature thermal modification under simulated clinical conditions.
Four systems (n=50) were investigated in vitro: low heat (LH; EdgeOne R-Utopia (Edge Endo, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA); Procodile Q (Komet Dental, Lemgo, Germany)) and high heat (HH; Reciproc Blue (VDW GmbH, Munich, Germany); CC One Blue (Bondent, San Clemente, California, USA)).
CFR was tested under simulated conditions (35±1°C).
Two canal configurations were used: a single-curvature canal (60°, 5 mm radius, curvature centre 6 mm from the tip) and a double-curvature canal (additional 70°, 2 mm radius, curvature centre 2 mm from the tip).
The files were tested in a 'pecking' motion (3 mm stroke, 0.5 Hz) until fracture occurred.
The time to fracture (TTF), number of cycles to fracture (NCF) and fragment length (FL) were measured.
Weibull analysis was performed to assess reliability and predict fracture behavior.
Fracture fragments were analysed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Two-factor ANOVA was performed using instrument type and canal configuration as independent variables for each outcome measure (TTF, NCF, FL).
Post hoc comparisons were conducted using Tukey-HSD (α = 0.05).
Normal distribution was confirmed using Shapiro-Wilk testing.
Differences in CFR were not significant between LH and HH systems (p=0.203), but were between file systems (p<0.001) and canal configurations (p<0.001).
CFR was highest with Procodile Q, then Reciproc Blue, and lowest with EdgeOne R-Utopia.
FL was similar between LH and HH (p=0.427) but differed between file systems and canal geometries (p<0.05).
SEM analyses confirmed fatigue cracks in highly stressed areas.
The temperature range of thermal pretreatment did not affect cyclic fatigue resistance.
Instead, file design and alloy composition were the decisive factors.
Clinicians should prioritise structural features and mechanical behavior over heat treatment labels when selecting instruments for complex root canal anatomies.
The effect of different precipitate microstructures obtained by different heat treatments on fatigue behavior of 7020 aluminum alloy was investigated.
The fine Guinier Preston I (GPI) zones in the under-aged alloy can be repeatedly sheared by dislocations produced in cyclic loading, making the fatigue crack initiate difficultly and fatigue crack path propagate tortuously.
Fatigue strength and fatigue crack propagation resistance of the alloy with shearable precipitates are much higher than those of the alloy with unshearable precipitates.
The peak-aged alloy with continuous grain boundary precipitate (GBP) and narrow precipitate free zone (PFZ) is prone to initiate fatigue cracks and reduce fatigue strength.
With the growth of unshearable precipitates, the fatigue strength of the alloy firstly increases and then decreases.
Precipitates with moderate size in the over-aged alloy improve the roughness-induced crack closure (RICC) effect.
Soft matrix with appropriate width between the precipitates can promote the slip reversibility and relax the crack tip stress.
The fatigue strength of the moderately over-aged alloy reaches to 122.1 MPa at 10
Advanced high-strength steels (AHSSs) with Zn coatings are commonly joined by the resistance spot welding (RSW) technique.
However, Zn coatings could possibly cause the formation of liquid metal embrittlement (LME) cracks during the RSW process.
The role of a Zn coating in the tensile-shear fatigue properties of a welding joint has not been systematically explored.
In this study, the fatigue properties of tensile-shear RSW joints for bare and Zn-coated advanced high-strength steel (AHSS) specimens were comparatively studied.
In particular, more severe LME cracks were triggered by employing a tilted welding electrode because much more stress was caused in the joint.
LME cracks had clearly occurred in the Zn-coated steel RSW joints, as observed via optical microscopy.
On the contrary, no LME cracks could be found in the RSW joints prepared with the bare steel sheets.
The fatigue test results showed that the tensile-shear fatigue properties remained nearly unchanged, regardless of whether bare or Zn-coated steel was used for the RSW joints.
Furthermore, Zn mapping adjacent to the crack initiation source was obtained by an electron probe micro-analyzer (EPMA), and it showed no segregation of the Zn element.
Thus, the failure of the RSW joints with the Zn coating had not initiated from the LME cracks.
It was concluded that the fatigue cracks were initiated by the stress concentration in the notch position between the two bonded steel sheets.
An integrable sensor inlay for monitoring crack initiation and growth inside bondlines of structural carbon fiber-reinforced plastic (CFRP) components is presented.
The sensing structures are sandwiched between crack-stopping poly(vinyliden fluoride) (PVDF) and a thin reinforcing polyetherimide (PEI) layer.
Good adhesion at all interfaces of the sensor system and to the CFRP material is crucial, as weak bonds can counteract the desired crack-stopping functionality.
At the same time, the chosen reinforcing layer must withstand high strains, safely support the metallic measuring grids, and possess outstanding fatigue strength.
We show that this robust sensor system, which measures the strain at two successive fronts inside the bondline, allows to recognize cracks in the proximity of the inlay regardless of the mechanical loads.
Feasibility is demonstrated by static load tests as well as cyclic long-term fatigue testing for up to 1,000,000 cycles.
In addition to pure crack detection, crack distance estimation based on sensor signals is illustrated.
The inlay integration process is developed with respect to industrial applicability.
Thus, implementation of the proposed system will allow the potential of lightweight CFRP constructions to be better exploited by expanding the possibilities of structural adhesive bonding.
Understanding the fatigue behaviors of weld joints is significant in engineering practice.
Rotary friction welding (RFW) can join the additively manufactured polymer components.
Until now, no research has focused on the fatigue behavior of polymer components jointed via RFW.
This study investigates the fatigue life of ABS/PC dissimilar components fabricated via RFW and proposes the fatigue mechanism based on the failure structure.
This work uses five different cyclic loads and rotational speeds to investigate the fatigue life.
The fatigue life of the RFW of ABS/PC dissimilar rods is better compared with the pure ABS and pure PC specimens due to weld and integrity microstructural changes resulting from the combination of ABS and PC materials.
The number of cycles until the rupture of RFW of ABS/PC dissimilar components (y) can be determined by the cyclic load (x) according to the prediction equation of y = -838.25x
Hastelloy N alloy is an excellent oxidation and corrosion-resistant material, which is selected as the shell material for the main vessel of molten salt reactors (MSRs).
In this work, we conducted double-sided gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW) on 4 mm thick Hastelloy N alloy plates to examine the microstructure and mechanical properties of the welded joints.
The S-N curve was obtained by fatigue test.
The experimental results show that fatigue cracks initiate along the weld toe and propagate inward in a fan-shaped pattern.
The hardness is highest in the heat-affected zone (HAZ).
The fracture mode observed was trans-granular.
The plastic zone in the initial stages of crack propagation remained relatively minimal. However, it gradually expanded during subsequent stages of the process.
It is noteworthy that the crack propagation process often involves the development of secondary cracks, accompanied by profound plasticity-induced closure effects.
The results of our investigation demonstrate that the welded joint exhibits excellent fatigue performance.
Additive manufacturing (AM) techniques enable fabrication of bone-mimicking meta-biomaterials with unprecedented combinations of topological, mechanical, and mass transport properties.
The mechanical performance of AM meta-biomaterials is a direct function of their topological design.
It is, however, not clear to what extent the material type is important in determining the fatigue behavior of such biomaterials.
We therefore aimed to determine the isolated and modulated effects of topological design and material type on the fatigue response of metallic meta-biomaterials fabricated with selective laser melting.
Towards that end, we designed and additively manufactured Co-Cr meta-biomaterials with three types of repeating unit cells and three to four porosities per type of repeating unit cell.
The AM meta-biomaterials were then mechanically tested to obtain their normalized S-N curves.
The obtained S-N curves of Co-Cr meta-biomaterials were compared to those of meta-biomaterials with same topological designs but made from other materials, i.e. Ti-6Al-4V, tantalum, and pure titanium, available from our previous studies.
We found the material type to be far more important than the topological design in determining the normalized fatigue strength of our AM metallic meta-biomaterials.
This is the opposite of what we have found for the quasi-static mechanical properties of the same meta-biomaterials.
The effects of material type, manufacturing imperfections, and topological design were different in the high and low cycle fatigue regions.
That is likely because the cyclic response of meta-biomaterials depends not only on the static and fatigue strengths of the bulk material but also on other factors that may include strut roughness, distribution of the micro-pores created inside the struts during the AM process, and plasticity.
Meta-biomaterials are a special class of metamaterials with unusual or unprecedented combinations of mechanical, physical (e.g. mass transport), and biological properties.
Topologically complex and additively manufactured meta-biomaterials have been shown to improve bone regeneration and osseointegration.
The mechanical properties of such biomaterials are directly related to their topological design and material type.
However, previous studies of such biomaterials have largely neglected the effects of material type, instead focusing on topological design.
We show here that neglecting the effects of material type is unjustified.
We studied the isolated and combined effects of topological design and material type on the normalized S-N curves of metallic bone-mimicking biomaterials and found them to be more strongly dependent on the material type than topological design.
This study investigates multiple cyclic loading scenarios of non-oriented electrical steel sheets through both experimental and numerical approaches.
The numerical simulations were conducted using Representative Volume Elements generated with DRAGen.
DRAGen allowed for the generation of Representative Volume Elements with a non-cubic shape to cover the complete sheet thickness and enough grains to represent the material's texture.
The experimental results, on the other hand, are utilized to calibrate and validate a prediction model, highlighting the significance of accumulated plastic slip as a suitable parameter correlated with fatigue life.
Using the accumulated plastic slip from the simulations, a fatigue fracture locus is introduced, which describes a 3D surface dependent on the maximum stress, fatigue life, and the fatigue stress ratio.
The study shows reliable results for the fatigue life prediction using the calibrated fatigue fracture locus.
While substantial progress has been made in predicting the fatigue life at multiple fatigue stress ratios, notable disparities between experimental and simulation results suggest the need for further investigations regarding the influence of the surface quality.
This observation motivates ongoing research efforts aimed at refining simulation methodologies to better incorporate surface roughness effects.
In summary, this study presents a validated model for predicting fatigue life in non-oriented electrical steel sheets, offering valuable insights into material behavior at different loading scenarios and informing future research directions for enhanced structural performance and durability.
A clamped cantilever beam test was developed to determine the fatigue crack propagation rate of the CoCr alloy/PMMA cement interface at high crack tip phase angles.
A combination of finite element and experimental methods was used to determine the fatigue crack growth rates of two different CoCr alloy/PMMA cement surfaces.
A crack tip phase angle of 69 deg was found, indicating that loading at the crack tip was mixed-mode with a large degree of in-plane shear loading.
The energy required to propagate a crack at the interface was much greater for the plasma-sprayed CoCr surface when compared to the PMMA-precoated satin finish (p < 0.001).
Both interface surfaces could be modeled using a Paris fatigue crack growth law over crack propagation rates of 10(-4) to 10(-9) m/cycle.
Stretchable electronics face the challenge of long-term stable operation, and one of the difficulties is that the core component electrodes maintain a high conductivity under multiple stretchable deformations.
To address this issue, we propose a highly fatigue-resistant stretchable metal film electrode, which consists of a platinum nanofilm prebent into regular microconvex stripes on the surface of an elastomeric material. The electrical conductivity of the stretchable electrode is 4.1 × 10
Fatigue failure is invariably the most crucial failure mode for metallic structural components.
Most microstructural strategies for enhancing fatigue resistance are effective in suppressing either crack initiation or propagation, but often do not work for both synergistically.
Here, we demonstrate that this challenge can be overcome by architecting a gradient structure featuring a surface layer of nacre-like nanolaminates followed by multi-variant twinned structure in pure titanium.
The polarized accommodation of highly regulated grain boundaries in the nanolaminated layer to cyclic loading enhances the structural stability against lamellar thickening and microstructure softening, thereby delaying surface roughening and thus crack nucleation.
The decohesion of the nanolaminated grains along horizonal high-angle grain boundaries gives rise to an extraordinarily high frequency (≈1.7 × 10
Studies of crack growth in nanograined films assert that mechanical damage accumulates at grain boundaries irrespective of the crack velocity and loading conditions.
This work shows that crack advance in nanograined Pt films involves a dislocation-slip mechanism that is a function of the crack growth rate and mode of loading.
Crack paths in Pt were initially intergranular, but transitioned to a transgranular mode that persisted until catastrophic failure.
This research demonstrates that crack growth mechanisms modeled for nanograined Ni cannot be generalized to other pure, metallic systems.
Fatigue properties of cast AZ91 magnesium alloy processed by severe plastic deformation were investigated and compared with the properties of the initial cast state.
The severe plastic deformation was carried out by equal channel angular pressing (ECAP).
The ECAP treatment resulted in a bimodal structure.
The bimodality consists in a coexistence of fine grained areas with higher content of Mg17Al12 particles and areas exhibiting larger grains and lower density of Mg17Al12 particles.
Improvement of the basic mechanical properties of AZ91 (yield stress, tensile strength and ductility) by ECAP was significant.
Also the improvement of the fatigue life in the low-cycle fatigue region was substantial. However the improvement of the fatigue strength in the high-cycle fatigue region was found to be negligible.
The endurance limit based on 10(7) cycles for the cast alloy was 80 MPa and for the alloy processed by ECAP 85 MPa. The cyclic plastic response in both states was qualitatively similar; initial softening was followed by a long cyclic hardening.
Fatigue cracks in cast alloy initiate in cyclic slip bands which were formed in areas of solid solution.
In the case of severe plastic deformed material with bimodal structure two substantially different mechanisms of crack initiation were observed.
Crack initiation in slip bands was a preferred process in the areas with large grains whereas the grain boundaries cracking was a characteristic mechanism in the fine grained regions.
Cracks that form during fatigue offer critical information regarding the fracture process of the associated material, such as the crack speed, energy dissipation, and material stiffness.
Characterization of the surfaces formed after these cracks have propagated through the material can provide important information complementary to other in-depth analyses.
However, because of the complex nature of these cracks, their characterization is difficult, and most of the established characterization techniques are inadequate.
Recently, Machine Learning techniques are being applied to image-based material science problems in predicting structure-property relations.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have proven their capacity on modeling complex and diverse images.
The downside of CNNs for supervised learning is that that they require large amounts of training data.
One work-around is using a pre-trained model, i.e., transfer learning (TL).
However, TL models cannot be used directly without modification.
In this paper, to use TL for crack surface feature-property mapping, we propose to prune the pre-trained model to retain the weights of the first several convolutional layers.
Those layers are then used to extract relevant underlying features from the microstructural images.
Next, principal component analysis (PCA) is used to further reduce the feature dimension.
Finally, the extracted crack features together with the temperature effect are correlated with the properties of interest using regression models.
The proposed approach is first tested on artificial microstructures created by spectral density function reconstruction.
It is then applied to experimental data of silicone rubbers.
With the experimental data, two analyses are performed: (i) analysis of the correlation of the crack surface feature and material property and (ii) predictive model for property estimation, whereby the experiments can be potentially replaced altogether.
To investigate the influence of the combination of patient-specific abutments and titanium adhesive bases on the long-term in vitro performance of anterior crowns.
Ten systems of screw-retained implant and adhesive base combinations (n=8/group) were restored with zirconia or polyetherketone (PEEK) abutments and identical full-anatomical zirconia crowns.
For simulating clinical anterior loading, implants were fixed at an angle of 135° and submitted to prolonged thermal cycling and mechanical loading (TC: 6×3000 cycles, 5°C/55°C; ML: 100N, 3.6×10(6) cycles) to cause and register fatigue failure.
Failed restorations were examined by means of scanning electron microscopy.
Surviving restorations were loaded to fracture.
Data (mean±standard deviation) were statistically analyzed (ANOVA; Bonferroni; Kaplan-Meier-Log-Rank; α=0.05).
Seven systems survived TCML without any failure.
The other three systems showed loosening and fracturing of the screw (0.4-1.6×10(6) loadings) or debonding between base and abutment (0.002-3.4×10(6) loadings).
None of the systems showed any fracture of the crown or failed bonding between abutment and crown.
The Log-Rank test showed significant (p=0.000) differences.
Fracture data significantly varied (ANOVA p=0.000) between the individual systems (minimum: 371N; maximum: 763N).
Failures were mostly caused by bending or fracturing of the screw and in three cases by fracture of the abutment.
Anterior implant-supported zirconia crowns on titanium adhesive bases and bonded patient-specific zirconia abutments provided good in vitro performance and high fracture resistance.
Sufficient high torque moments and early re-screwing may be advised.
Most adhesive base and abutment combinations may be appropriate for anterior application.
Individual improvements may contribute to enduring success.
Fast development of space technologies poses a strong challenge for elastic materials, which need to be not only lightweight, strong and compliant, but also able to maintain stable elasticity over a wide temperature range
The thermo-mechanical fatigue (TMF) behaviour of a Ti-6Al-4V matrix composite reinforced with SCS-6 silicon carbide fibres (140 μm longitudinal fibres, laid up hexagonally) has been investigated.
In-phase and out-of-phase TMF cycles were utilized, cycling between 80⁻300 °C, with varying maximum stress.
The microstructure and fracture surfaces were studied using electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), profilometry, and optical microscopy.
The results have shown the damaging effect of out-of-phase cycling with crack initiation occurring earlier than in in-phase tests and crack propagation rates being accelerated in out-of-phase cycles.
Fatigue crack initiation has been shown to be sensitive to crystallographic texture in the cladding material and thermo-mechanical fatigue test results can be considered according to a previously proposed conceptual framework for the interpretation of metal matrix composite fatigue.
The disposal of waste tyres presents a significant environmental challenge, necessitating sustainable, high-value recycling solutions.
This study explores the incorporation of waste tyre metal fibre (WTMF) into hot mix asphalt (HMA) to enhance mechanical performance while reducing landfill burden.
WTMF-modified mixes containing 0%, 0.375%, 0.75%, 1.125%, and 1.50% fibre were evaluated through Marshall and volumetric testing, indirect tensile strength (ITS) and tensile strength ratio (TSR) for moisture damage, stiffness modulus at varying temperatures, and fatigue life under cyclic loading.
Microscopic analysis revealed WTMF's irregular, rough surface with microcracks and pits, aiding crack-bridging and stress transfer.
Marshall testing showed that the optimum binder content of WTMF-modified mixtures was approximately 5% higher than that of the control (conventional HMA without WTMF); however, stability decreased while flow increased, resulting in a reduced Marshall quotient due to fibre conglomeration affecting porosity and bulk specific gravity.
ITS results indicated that the control mixture exhibited the highest cracking resistance, whereas WTMF-modified mixtures demonstrated improved moisture resistance (TSR > 80%).
The maximum improvement was observed at 0.75% WTMF-induced HMA, with an 11% increase in TSR, while a slight reduction of 2.4% occurred at 1.50% WTMF-induced HMA.
Stiffness testing showed that the mixture containing 0.375% WTMF achieved the highest modulus, exhibiting up to a 70% increase at 5 °C and more than a twofold increase at elevated temperatures compared to the control mixture.
With increasing temperature, stiffness decreased by approximately 84% for the control mixture and 80% for the 0.375% WTMF-modified mixture.
Fatigue analysis showed that the control mixture achieved a fatigue life of 115,529 loading cycles at low stress, followed by substantial reductions in fatigue life with increasing stress levels, whereas moderate WTMF contents improved strain performance; however, excessive fibre content increased permanent deformation under high stress.
Stress- and strain-based empirical power-law relationships were established for predicting the fatigue life of each investigated mixture.
Results demonstrate that WTMF's controlled dosage within the optimum range of 0.375 to 0.75% has the potential to improve HMA's performance indicators, offering a sustainable recycling pathway for waste tyres.
This paper reports on the process-fatigue relation of lithium disilicate glass ceramic (LDGC) using low-cycle, high-load Hertzian indentations with a rigid indenter to simulate teeth grinding/clenching of LDGC restorations with different surface asperities obtained in CAD/CAM milling, sintering, polishing and glazing.
The maximum contact stresses were evaluated as functions of the number of load cycles and surface treatments using the Hertzian model.
Indentation-induced surface damage was viewed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to understand the relationships among microstructures, surface asperities, crack morphology and propagation.
Different processes and surface treatments significantly affected the maximum contact stresses of indented LDGC surfaces (ANOVA, p < 0.05), which were all significantly reduced with the number of cycles (ANOVA, p < 0.05).
Quasi-plastic deformation was dominant in single-cycle indentation of all processed and treated surfaces.
In higher cycle indentations, inner cone cracks were formed on all surfaces; median and transverse cracks were formed on the roughest surfaces processed by CAD/CAM milling and sintering.
Ring cracks, fretting, pulverization, micro-bridges, surface smearing and wedging, and edge chippings were also propagated on all surfaces.
The process-fatigue relation provides an understanding of the mechanical functions of surface asperities produced in different processes and treatments.
It indicates that the mechanically assisted growth of surface asperities with different roughness strongly affected the indentation-induced surface damage.
Finally, the smoothest surfaces produced by CAD/CAM milling, polishing and sintering sustained the highest contact stresses and the least fatigue damage at higher cycles, ensuring their superior fatigue performance compared to other processed LDGC surfaces.
Shape memory alloys (SMAs) are a class of functional materials that possess unique thermomechanical properties, such as shape memory effect (SME), superelasticity (SE), damping, and good fatigue and corrosion resistance, which enable them to become ideal materials for applications in earthquake engineering.
Numerous studies have shown that the mechanical properties of superelastic SMAs mainly depend on the wire form, or the relationship between the microstructure and thermally induced phase transitions.
However, extremely few studies have elucidated the effects of the heat-treatment strategy, size effect of large diameters, and cyclic loading.
Herein, the mechanical properties of SMA bars, such as residual strain, energy dissipation, and equivalent damping ratio, were studied with different heat-treatment strategies, cyclic loadings, and strain amplitudes; this was achieved by conducting cyclic tensile tests on SMA bars with four different diameters.
The results indicate that the maximum phase transformation stress was obtained with a 14 mm SMA bar subjected to heat treatment at 400 ℃ for 15 min.
The mechanical properties were relatively stable after five loading-unloading cycles, which should be considered in engineering applications.
The test results provide a mechanical basis for using large SMA bars in self-centering structures in seismic regions.
The poor fatigue strength of Ti-6Al-4V ELI is a main cause of failure in structural implants.
In this work, Ti-6Al-4V ELI was subjected to β-solution treatment to obtain martensite microstructure and further subjected to -196 °C for 24 h.
Significant improvement in high cycle fatigue performance of martensite Ti-6Al-4V ELI was observed on exposure to cryogenic cycle.
Resistance to fatigue crack growth of alloy was augmented in martensite structure as compared with mill annealed sample and the same was retained even after exposure to cryogenic treatment.
The variation observed in fatigue behavior due to cryogenic treatment was correlated with fractography and metallurgical investigations.
Improvement in high cycle fatigue performance can be attributed to a combined effect of a decrease in the size of prior β grain, formation of massive α patch and its subsequent transformation into ultra-fine α and β during the soaking period at -196 °C.
The widely used fatigue life prediction models, such as the Coffin-Manson model or S-N curve related models are based on the assumption that the response of a material experiencing low cycle fatigue loading is stabilized during some period.
However, for many materials such a stabilized state is hardly observed, and the activated mechanisms for cyclic hardening or softening depend on test conditions.
In general, the selected test conditions (stress or strain control) should depend on the intended use of the obtained material data.
If testing conditions do not correspond to the operation mode of the considered mechanical facilities, the above mentioned life prediction models will produce inaccurate results.
Hence, selecting and identifying proper fatigue parameters, which would represent the state of a material during the whole fatigue life, is extremely important in reliability evaluation of structures.
In the case of non-stabilizing steels, the common challenges are:•Selecting and performing a suitable set of experimental tests to recognize various aspects of the material behavior under low-cycle thermomechanical fatigue;•Adjusting a proper constitutive modelling, reflecting the real physical phenomena taking place in the material microstructure;•Effective numerical implementation and optimal parameter identification.
Previous studies report rare occurrences of tibial baseplate fractures following primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA).
However, at a microstructural scale, it remains unclear how fatigue models developed in vitro apply to fractures in vivo.
In this study, we asked: (1) do any clinical factors differentiate fracture patients from a broader revision sample; and (2) in vivo, how does microstructure influence fatigue crack propagation?
We identified three fractured tibial baseplates from an institutional review board exempt implant retrieval program.
Then, for comparison, we collated clinical data from the same database for n = 2120 revision TKA patients with tibial trays.
To identify mechanisms, we characterized fracture features using scanning electron and digital optical microscopy.
Additionally, we performed cross sectional analysis using focused ion beam milling.
The fracture cohort consisted of moderately to very active patients with increased implantation time (15.6 years) compared to the larger revision patient sample (5.1 years, p = 0.009).
We did not find a significant difference in patient weight between the two groups (p = 0.98).
Macroscopic fracture features aligned well with both previous retrieval analysis and in vitro baseplate fatigue tests.
On a micron scale, we identified striations on each baseplate, demonstrating fatigue as the fracture mechanism.
In vivo fatigue fracture processes depended on both the alloy (Ti-6Al-4V vs. CoCrMo) and the microstructure of the alloy formed during manufacturing.
For Ti-6Al-4V, the presence of equiaxed or acicular microstructure influenced the fatigue crack propagation, the latter arising from large prior β grains and a Widmanstatten microstructure, degrading fatigue strength.
CoCrMo alloy fatigue cracks propagated linearly, crystallographically influenced by planar slip.
However, we did not document any features of overload or fast fracture, suggesting a high cycle, low stress fatigue regime.
Ultimately, the crack profiles we present here may provide insight into fatigue fractures of modern tibial baseplates.
Shear banding is a ubiquitous phenomenon of severe plastic deformation, and damage accumulation in shear bands often results in the catastrophic failure of a material. Despite extensive studies, the microscopic mechanisms of strain localization and deformation damage in shear bands remain elusive due to their spatial-temporal complexities embedded in bulk materials.
Here we conducted synchrotron-based X-ray microdiffraction (μXRD) experiments to map out the 3D lattice strain field with a submicron resolution around fatigue shear bands in a stainless steel.
Both in situ and postmortem μXRD results revealed large lattice strain gradients at intersections of the primary and secondary shear bands.
Such strain gradients resulted in severe mechanical heterogeneities across the fatigue shear bands, leading to reduced fatigue limits in the high-cycle regime.
The ability to spatially quantify the localized strain gradients with submicron resolution through μXRD opens opportunities for understanding the microscopic mechanisms of damage and failure in bulk materials.
Gallium nitride (GaN) has emerged as one of the most promising wide-bandgap semiconductors for next-generation space photovoltaics.
In contrast to conventional III-V compounds such as GaAs and InP, which are highly efficient under terrestrial conditions but suffer from radiation-induced degradation and thermal instability, GaN offers an exceptional combination of intrinsic material properties ideally suited for harsh orbital environments.
Its wide bandgap, high thermal conductivity, and strong chemical stability contribute to superior resistance against high-energy protons, electrons, and atomic oxygen, while minimizing thermal fatigue under repeated cycling between extreme temperatures.
Recent progress in epitaxial growth-spanning metal-organic chemical vapor deposition, molecular beam epitaxy, hydride vapor phase epitaxy, and atomic layer deposition-has enabled unprecedented control over film quality, defect densities, and heterointerface sharpness.
At the device level, InGaN/GaN heterostructures, multiple quantum wells, and tandem architectures demonstrate outstanding potential for spectrum-tailored solar energy conversion, with modeling studies predicting efficiencies exceeding 40% under AM0 illumination.
In this review article, the current state of knowledge on GaN materials and device architectures for space photovoltaics has been summarized, with emphasis placed on recent progress and persisting challenges.
Particular focus has been given to defect management, doping strategies, and bandgap engineering approaches, which define the roadmap toward scalable and radiation-hardened GaN-based solar cells.
With sustained interdisciplinary advances, GaN is anticipated to complement or even supersede traditional III-V photovoltaics in space, enabling lighter, more durable, and radiation-hard power systems for long-duration missions beyond Earth's magnetosphere.
The effect of SiC reinforcement on the microstructure of a naturally aged 8090 Al alloy as well as on the deformation and fracture micromechanisms was investigated.
To this end, the microstructural characteristics (grain and reinforcement morphology, precipitate structure) were determined in the unreinforced alloy and in the composite reinforced with 15 vol.% SiC particles.
The materials were tested under monotonic tension and fully reversed cyclic deformation and then carefully analysed through scanning and transmission electron microscopy to find the dominant deformation and failure processes for each material and loading condition.
It was found that the dispersion of the SiC particles restrained the formation of elongated grains during extrusion and inhibited the precipitation of Al3Li.
As a result, the plastic deformation in the composite was homogeneous, while strain localization in slip bands was observed in the unreinforced alloy specimens tested in tension and in fatigue.
The unreinforced alloy failed by transgranular shear along the slip bands during monotonic deformation, whereas fracture was initiated by grain boundary delamination, promoted by the stress concentrations induced by the slip bands, during cyclic deformation.
The fracture of the composite was precipitated by the progressive fracture of the SiC reinforcements during monotonic and cyclic deformation.
The growing trend of minimally invasive approaches has encouraged the application of partial coverage designs in restorative dentistry.
This study aimed to evaluate the cyclic fatigue performance of different CAD-CAM materials used in various partial coverage designs for premolar restorations.
A freshly extracted upper premolar was prepared using a high-speed handpiece to create mesio-occluso-distal (MOD) cavities with standardized dimensions.
Three preparation designs were investigated: onlay, overlay, and vonlay.
CAD software was used to create digital models of the restorations, which were milled into one of four CAD-CAM materials: Zr - zirconia polycrystals (4Y-PSZ); EX - lithium disilicate glass-ceramic; VS - zirconia-reinforced lithium silicate glass-ceramic; GB - nanohybrid composite.
Partial coverage restorations were bonded to tooth replicas and subjected to step-stress cyclic fatigue testing using a chewing simulator device (n = 10).
The number of cycles-to-failure and fatigue fracture resistance (N) were recorded and analysed with Kaplan-Meier survival statistics and Weibull analysis, respectively.
Fracture surfaces were analysed using fractography.
Zr exhibited significantly higher number of cycles-to-failure and greater characteristic fracture load (L The findings of this study emphasize the critical role of material selection and preparation design in optimizing the mechanical performance and clinical success of partial coverage restorations. 4Y-PSZ is recommended for high-stress areas due to its superior fatigue and fracture resistance.
Overlay designs provide better fatigue resistance, making them more suitable for clinical scenarios requiring higher durability.
Understanding the fatigue performance of different materials and designs aids in making informed decisions to enhance the longevity and success of partial coverage restorations in premolars.
Living bodies are made of numerous bio-sensors and actuators for perceiving external stimuli and making movement.
Hydrogels have been considered as ideal candidates for manufacturing bio-sensors and actuators because of their excellent biocompatibility, similar mechanical and electrical properties to that of living organs.
The key point of manufacturing hydrogel sensors/actuators is that the materials should not only possess excellent mechanical and electrical properties but also form effective interfacial connections with various substrates.
Traditional hydrogel normally shows high electrical resistance (~ MΩ•cm) with limited mechanical strength (<1 MPa), and it is prone to fatigue fracture during continuous loading-unloading cycles.
Just like iron should be toughened and hardened into steel, manufacturing and post-treatment processes are necessary for modifying hydrogels.
Besides, advanced design and manufacturing strategies can build effective interfaces between sensors/actuators and other substrates, thus enhancing the desired mechanical and electrical performances.
Although various literatures have reviewed the manufacture or modification of hydrogels, the summary regarding the post-treatment strategies and the creation of effective electrical and mechanically sustainable interfaces are still lacking.
This paper aims at providing an overview of the following topics: (i) the manufacturing and post-engineering treatment of hydrogel sensors and actuators; (ii) the processes of creating sensor(actuator)-substrate interfaces; (iii) the development and innovation of hydrogel manufacturing and interface creation.
In the first section, the manufacturing processes and the principles for post-engineering treatments are discussed, and some typical examples are also presented.
In the second section, the studies of interfaces between hydrogels and various substrates are reviewed.
Lastly, we summarize the current manufacturing processes of hydrogels, and provide potential perspectives for hydrogel manufacturing and post-treatment methods.
Crack-based flexible strain sensors with ultra-high sensitivity under tiny strain are highly desired for environmental perception and motion detection of novel flexible and miniature robots.
However, previously reported methods for fabricating crack patterns have often sacrificed the cyclic stability of the sensor, leading to a trade-off relationship between the sensitivity and the cyclic stability.
Here, a universal and simple strategy based on fatigue loading with an ultra-large cumulative strain of up to ∼1.2 × 10
To study the fatigue failure and microstructure evolution behavior of SS304, low-cycle fatigue tests are conducted at room temperature (RT), 300 °C, and 650 °C.
The results indicate that, because of the influence of the dislocation walls, carbon-containing precipitates, and deformation twins, the cyclic hardening behavior is presented at RT.
However, different from the cyclic hardening behavior at RT, the cyclic softening behavior of SS304 can be observed due to the dynamic recovery and recrystallization containing dislocation rearrangement and annihilation at 300 °C and 650 °C.
In addition, two fatigue crack initiation modes are observed.
At RT, the single fatigue crack initiation mode is observed.
At high temperatures, multiple crack initiation modes are presented, resulting from the degradation of material properties.
Furthermore, a new fatigue life prediction model considering the temperature is conducted as a reference for industrial applications.
Early failure of laser-welded titanium implant frameworks in clinical practice has prompted an investigation of the strength and durability of welded cantilevered titanium sections.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect that the use of filler wire in laser welding of titanium cantilever frameworks had on the flexural strength and fatigue resistance of the welded joints.
Sixty titanium implant-supported frameworks with 12-mm cantilevers were fabricated in 4 groups (n=15), using 3 different laser welding protocols with 0, 1, and 2 weld passes with filler wire, and 1 conventional tungsten inert gas welding method.
The volume of filler wire used (mean volumes 0, 1.7, 3.4, and 8.3 mm(3)) was determined by measurement of the length of wire before and after welding each joint.
Ten frameworks from each group were tested for ultimate flexural strength by loading the cantilevers 10 mm from the abutment.
The remaining 5 frameworks from each group were similarly tested under a simulated masticatory load of 200 N until failure, or to 1 million cycles.
A 2-way analysis of variance was used to examine the flexural strengths, and log-rank statistics were applied to cyclic test data (alpha=.05).
There were significant differences between the 4 groups for ultimate flexural strength (P<.001) and resistance to cyclic loading (P=.002).
The volume of filler wire added was a significant predictor of ultimate flexural strength (P=.03), and was a borderline determinant of the number of cycles to failure at 200 N (P=.05).
Each laser weld pass with filler wire roughly doubled the ultimate flexural strength and fatigue resistance of the joint relative to the previous weld.
Tungsten inert gas welding with efficient argon shielding deposited the most filler wire and produced the strongest and most fatigue-resistant joints.
The ultimate flexural strength and fatigue resistance of cantilevered joints in laser-welded titanium prostheses are improved by the use of filler wire.
Tungsten inert gas welding with efficient argon shielding can be used in situations when a high-strength joint is required.
Fatigue endurance anisotropic behavior was evaluated for an API 5L X42 pipeline steel through axial force-controlled fatigue tests amongst Longitudinal, Diagonal, and Circumferential directions.
This study shows that fatigue life anisotropy is mainly controlled by pearlite banding degree (
Ti-6Al-4V implants that function as artificial joints are usually subjected to long-term cyclic loading.
To study long-term fatigue behaviors of implant Ti-6Al-4V in vitro and in vivo conditions exceeding 107 cycles, constant stress amplitude fatigue experiments were carried out at ultrasonic frequency (20 kHz) with two different surface conditions (ground and polished) in ambient air and in a simulated body fluid.
The initiation mechanisms of fatigue cracks were investigated with scanning electron microscopy.
Improvement of fatigue strength is pronounced for polished specimens below 106 cycles in ambient air since fatigue cracks are initiated from surfaces of specimens.
While the cycles exceed 106, surface conditions have no effect on fatigue behaviors because the defects located within the specimens become favorable sites for crack initiation.
The endurance limit at 108 cycles of polished Ti-6Al-4V specimens decreases by 7% if it is cycled in simulated body fluid instead of ambient air.
Fracture surfaces show that fatigue failure is initiated from surfaces in simulated body fluid.
Surface improvement has a beneficial effect on fatigue behaviors of Ti-6Al-4V at high stress amplitudes.
The fatigue properties of Ti-6Al-4V deteriorate and the mean endurance limits decrease significantly in simulated body fluid.
The aim of this research was to evaluate the fatigue behavior and reliability of monolithic computer-aided design/computer-assisted manufacture (CAD/CAM) lithium disilicate and hand-layer-veneered zirconia all-ceramic crowns.
A CAD-based mandibular molar crown preparation, fabricated using rapid prototyping, served as the master die.
Fully anatomically shaped monolithic lithium disilicate crowns (IPS e.max CAD, n = 19) and hand-layer-veneered zirconia-based crowns (IPS e.max ZirCAD/Ceram, n = 21) were designed and milled using a CAD/CAM system.
Crowns were cemented on aged dentinlike composite dies with resin cement.
Crowns were exposed to mouth-motion fatigue by sliding a WC-indenter (r = 3.18 mm) 0.7 mm lingually down the distobuccal cusp using three different step-stress profiles until failure occurred.
Failure was designated as a large chip or fracture through the crown.
If no failures occurred at high loads (> 900 N), the test method was changed to staircase r ratio fatigue.
Stress level probability curves and reliability were calculated.
Hand-layer-veneered zirconia crowns revealed veneer chipping and had a reliability of < 0.01 (0.03 to 0.00, two-sided 90% confidence bounds) for a mission of 100,000 cycles and a 200-N load.
None of the fully anatomically shaped CAD/CAM-fabricated monolithic lithium disilicate crowns failed during step-stress mouth-motion fatigue (180,000 cycles, 900 N).
CAD/CAM lithium disilicate crowns also survived r ratio fatigue (1,000,000 cycles, 100 to 1,000 N).
There appears to be a threshold for damage/bulk fracture for the lithium disilicate ceramic in the range of 1,100 to 1,200 N.
Based on present fatigue findings, the application of CAD/CAM lithium disilicate ceramic in a monolithic/fully anatomical configuration resulted in fatigue-resistant crowns, whereas hand-layer-veneered zirconia crowns revealed a high susceptibility to mouth-motion cyclic loading with early veneer failures.
The catalytic film of a flexible Al-air battery is generally a brittle film formed by brushing a slurry onto the surface of carbon cloth.
Fatigue bending can easily lead to cracking of the catalytic film and shedding of the active material. This study innovatively proposes a novel grid-structured catalytic layer prepared by electrohydrodynamic printing.
Experiments have verified that, compared with traditional catalytic films, the grid-structured catalytic layer exhibits excellent bending resistance.
After 10 000 fatigue bending cycles, its relative resistance is ≈1/9 that of the traditional catalytic film.
The printed grid-structured catalytic layer is applied to a flexible Al-air battery, which maintains a power density retention rate as high as 92% after the same number of bending cycles.
Compared to traditional catalytic films, the electrodynamically printed grid-structured catalytic layer proposed in this study demonstrates both excellent electrochemical performance and bending resistance.
This advancement holds significant importance for the development and application of flexible metal-air batteries.
Nearly 90 per cent of service failures of metallic components and structures are caused by fatigue at cyclic stress amplitudes much lower than the tensile strength of the materials involved.
Metals typically suffer from large amounts of cumulative, irreversible damage to microstructure during cyclic deformation, leading to cyclic responses that are unstable (hardening or softening) and history-dependent.
Existing rules for fatigue life prediction, such as the linear cumulative damage rule, cannot account for the effect of loading history, and engineering components are often loaded by complex cyclic stresses with variable amplitudes, mean values and frequencies, such as aircraft wings in turbulent air.
It is therefore usually extremely challenging to predict cyclic behaviour and fatigue life under a realistic load spectrum.
Here, through both atomistic simulations and variable-strain-amplitude cyclic loading experiments at stress amplitudes lower than the tensile strength of the metal, we report a history-independent and stable cyclic response in bulk copper samples that contain highly oriented nanoscale twins.
We demonstrate that this unusual cyclic behaviour is governed by a type of correlated 'necklace' dislocation consisting of multiple short component dislocations in adjacent twins, connected like the links of a necklace.
Such dislocations are formed in the highly oriented nanotwinned structure under cyclic loading and help to maintain the stability of twin boundaries and the reversible damage, provided that the nanotwins are tilted within about 15 degrees of the loading axis.
This cyclic deformation mechanism is distinct from the conventional strain localizing mechanisms associated with irreversible microstructural damage in single-crystal, coarse-grained, ultrafine-grained and nanograined metals.
The use of high strength steel allows the design of lighter, more slender and simpler structures due to high strength and favorable ductility.
Nevertheless, the increase of yield strength does not guarantee the corresponding improvement of fatigue resistance, which becomes a major concern for engineering structure design, especially for the welded joints.
The paper presents a comparison of the low cycle fatigue behaviors between 10CrNi3MoV high strength steel and its undermatched weldments.
Uniaxial tension tests, Push-pull, strain-controlled fatigue tests were conducted on base metal and weldments in the strain range of 0.2⁻1.2%.
The monotonic and cyclic stress-strain curves, stress-life, strain-life and energy-life in terms of these materials were analyzed for fatigue assessment of materials discrepancy.
The stress-life results of base metal and undermatched weld metal exhibit cyclic softening behaviors.
Furthermore, the shapes of 10CrNi3MoV steel hysteresis loops show a satisfactory Masing-type behavior, while the weld metal shows a non-Masing type behavior.
Strain, plastic and total strain energy density amplitudes against the number of reversals to failure results demonstrate that the undermatched weld metal presents a higher resistance to fatigue crack initiation than 10CrNi3MoV high strength steel.
Finally, fatigue fracture surfaces of specimens were compared by scanning electron microscopy to identify the differences of crack initiation and the propagation between them.
This study aimed to evaluate the impact of mechanical fatigue cycling using the step-stress approach along with hydrothermaldegradation (134 ºC with a constant pressure of 2 bars for 20 h), and a novel intercalated hydrothermal/fatigue aging protocol on different aspects of the aging resistance of three generations of dental zirconias. "Y"Z T (VITA), INCORIS "T"ZI (Dentsply Sirona) and "K"ATANA UTML (Noritake Kuraray) - 1st, 2nd and 3rd generation, respectively-, zirconia disks (N = 153), were divided into 6 groups (n = 3) for monotonic testing and 9 groups (n = 15) for mechanical fatigue testing, according to 3 proposed treatments for each zirconia: CF (control - only mechanical fatigue cycling); AF (aging in hydrothermal reactor at 134 °C for 20 h + mechanical fatigue cycling); AFA (Alternating protocol: 4 steps of 5 h of hydrothermal aging intercalated with mechanical fatigue cycling).
Mechanical fatigue aging was performed according to the step-stress approach through biaxial flexural setup (piston-on-3-balls, initial strength: 100 MPa, step: 50 MPa/10,000, frequency: 20 Hz) until failure.
Data were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier and Mantel-Cox test (α = 0.05), in addition to Weibull analysis.
Fractured disks were analyzed in stereomicroscope, Scanning Electron Microscopy and X-Ray Diffraction.
Continuous hydrothermal and mechanical fatigue cycling decreased the fatigue strength of YAF group (516 ± 38 MPa), while the alternating protocol increased it (730 ± 58 MPa).
KATANA UTML showed no differences for both treatments and did not undergo t-m phase transformation.
The TAF group showed the highest fatigue strength (810 ± 76 MPa) and cycles for failure (147,000.00 cycles).
The fracture origin for all specimens was on the tensile side in pre-existing defects.
INCORIS TZI zirconia had higher fatigue strength and survival rates after hydrothermal and mechanical fatigue aging.
Although less resistant, KATANA UTML did not suffer chemical degradation.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the effect of endodontic treatment with or without fiber-post restorations on the fracture strength of abutment teeth under fixed partial dentures (FPDs).
Seventy extracted premolar and canine teeth were used.
Groups of fiber-post-retained and root-filled teeth were endodontically treated.
The teeth were embedded in an acrylic resin perpendicular to the horizontal plane to create fixed partial dentures.
The following groups were created using different abutments: (1) sound (S) canine/S premolar, (2) S canine/endodontically treated (ET) premolar, (3) ET canine/S premolar, (4) ET canine/ET premolar, (5) S canine/fiber-post-restored (FPR) premolar, (6) FPR canine/S premolar, and (7) FPR canine/FPR premolar.
Each tooth was prepared for a complete-coverage full-metal crown.
Impressions were taken; metal frameworks were fabricated and cemented.
The samples were exposed to 5,000 cycles of thermomechanical fatigue and loaded compressively until fracture (2 mm/min).
The data were statistically analyzed using (Kruskal-Wallis test, α = 0.05).
No significant difference was found among the mean fracture strengths of the groups (p = 0.696).
There were distinct differences in failure patterns.
All of the fracture types were horizontal, and neither vertical nor non-restorable root fractures were recorded.
Premolars seemed to be a critical abutment compared to canines when they were sound under FPDs.
The percentage of cervical fractures was high in endodontically treated teeth when compared to post-retained groups.
In case of post-debonding, the abutment fracture did not occur.
When root-filled teeth are used as abutments for FPDs, fiber-post restorations or the creation of abutments from similar structures (ET/ET or FPR/FPR) results in improved conservation of root structure under loading when compared to the abutments from different structures (S/ET, ET/S, FPR/S, S/FPR).
To evaluate the failure patterns of teeth restored with both cast metal and fiber posts after fatigue cycling.
Thirty-five crownless human teeth subdivided into 5 groups were subjected to 2 x 106 100-N fatigue cycles at 8 Hz under 37 degrees C water.
No root fatigue fractures were recorded.
High microleakage values were found in specimens that survived fatigue.
No statistically significant relationships were found for fatigue (P > .4), fracture strength (P > .8), and microleakage (P > .1).
Cast-metal and fiber posts undergo insidious microscopic adhesive failures at similar levels.
Increasing the post diameter and/or post stiffness could improve the core stabilization.
A Ti-34Nb-13Ta-5Zr (TNT5Zr) β Ti alloy with a high strength-to-modulus ratio has been developed, showing its potential to become another candidate material in load-bearing implant applications.
This work mainly investigates the microstructural evolution, mechanical properties, and biocompatibility of a post-processing-treated TNT5Zr alloy manufactured via selective laser melting (SLM).
Transmission electron microscopy observation shows the existence of the single beta grain matrix and alpha precipitates along the grain boundary in the SLM + HIP manufactured TNT5Zr alloy (TNT5Zr-AF + HIP), and ellipsoidal nano-sized intragranular α″ precipitates (approx. 5-10 nm) were introduced after the subsequent low-temperature aging treatment.
The precipitation strengthening enables the SLM + HIP + aging manufactured TNT5Zr (TNT5Zr-AF + HIPA) alloy to show a comparable ultimate tensile strength (853 ± 9 MPa) to that of the reference material (Ti64-AF + HIP, 926 ± 23 MPa).
Including the inferior notch-like surface of the test pieces, the slip-band cracking that occurs in this ductile TNT5Zr-AF + HIPA alloy is regarded as the main factor in determining its fatigue strength (170 MPa).
Fatigue is a difficult multi-scale modelling problem nucleating from localised plasticity at the scale of dislocations and microstructure with significant engineering safety implications.
Cold dwell fatigue is a phenomenon in titanium where stress holds at moderate temperatures lead to substantial reductions in cyclic life, and has been implicated in service failures.
Using discrete dislocation plasticity modelling complemented by transmission electron microscopy, we successfully predict lifetimes for 'worst case' microstructures representative of jet engine spin tests.
Fatigue loading above a threshold stress is found to produce slip in soft grains, leading to strong dislocation pile-ups at boundaries with hard grains.
Pile-up stresses generated are high enough to nucleate hard grain basal dislocations, as observed experimentally.
Reduction of applied cyclic load alongside a temperature excursion during the cycle lead to much lower densities of prism dislocations in soft grains and, sometimes, the elimination of basal dislocations in hard grains altogether.
In this paper, the effects of cell geometry and relative density on the high-cycle fatigue behavior of Titanium scaffolds produced by selective laser melting and electron beam melting techniques were numerically investigated by finite element analysis.
The regular titanium lattice samples with three different unit cell geometries, namely, diamond, rhombic dodecahedron and truncated cuboctahedron, and the relative density range of 0.1-0.3 were analyzed under uniaxial cyclic compressive loading.
A failure event based algorithm was employed to simulate fatigue failure in the cellular material. Stress-life approach was used to model fatigue failure of both bulk (struts) and cellular material. The predicted fatigue life and the damage pattern of all three structures were found to be in good agreement with the experimental fatigue investigations published in the literature.
The results also showed that the relationship between fatigue strength and cycles to failure obeyed the power law.
The coefficient of power function was shown to depend on relative density, geometry and fatigue properties of the bulk material while the exponent was only dependent on the fatigue behavior of the bulk material. The results also indicated the failure surface at an angle of 45° to the loading direction.
Within the scope of this research, patterns of changes in the fatigue life and limit of metals under cyclic stress were identified and the most informative parameters were determined as the basis for developing a method for the universal transformation of experimental data on the fatigue of metals and alloys for their subsequent generalization.
Experimental data on metal fatigue, obtained by a large number of authors for a wide range of grades of steels and alloys, under the influence of various combinations of factors, were systematized.
A generalized dependence of the recalculated parameters of fatigue life and limit was obtained, its characteristics were assessed, and a sensitivity analysis was performed, confirming the universal nature of the obtained dependence.
A system of parameters has been proposed making it possible to consider and forecast high-cycle fatigue processes for a wide range of metals and alloys, under the conditions of various combinations of operating factors, from unified positions and a more general point of view.
The large scatter in high-cycle fatigue (HCF) life poses significant challenges to safe and reliable in-service assessment of additively manufactured metal components.
Previous investigations have indicated that inherent manufacturing defects are a critical factor affecting the fatigue performance of the components, and the HCF life is significantly influenced by the geometric parameters of the critical defects inducing crack nucleation.
Therefore, it is highly important to elucidate the correlation of the HCF life with the geometric parameters of critical defects.
This study proposes a new fatigue life prediction model for laser additively manufactured AlSi10Mg alloys by including the combined effects of loading stress and defect geometries (size, location and morphology) in terms of domain knowledge-guided symbolic regression (SR).
Domain knowledge is extracted from the semi-empirical Murakami,
Narrow-bandgap mixed Sn-Pb perovskite solar cells (PSCs) have showcased great promise to approach the Shockley-Queisser limit.
Despite continuously proven elevated power conversion efficiencies (PCEs), the practical application and commercial use of Sn-Pb PSCs are hindered by poor photostability and anti-fatigue performance.
These issues arise from multiple intrinsic imperfections formed during crystallization and light-triggered defects generated during device operation under intermittent illumination.
Herein, we introduced a novel "dynamic defect management" (DDM) strategy that mitigated photodegradation of Sn-Pb perovskites and significantly enhanced the device lifespan.
The strong coordination between metallocene intercalation and metal cations (Pb
Microtexture heterogeneities are commonly found in titanium forgings because of the thermomechanical processing.
Also known as macrozones, these regions can reach millimetres in length, with grains sharing a similar crystallographic orientation leading to less resistance to crack propagation.
Since the link between macrozones and the reduction of cold-dwell-fatigue performance on rotative components in gas turbine engines was established, efforts have been put into macrozone definition and characterization.
The electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) technique, widely used for texture analysis, allows for a qualitative macrozone characterization; however, further processing is required to define the boundaries and disorientation spread of each macrozone.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the microstructures, tensile lap shear strength, and fatigue resistance of 6022-T43 aluminum alloy joints welded via a solid-state welding technique-ultrasonic spot welding (USW)-at different energy levels.
An ultra-fine necklace-like equiaxed grain structure is observed along the weld line due to the occurrence of dynamic crystallization, with smaller grain sizes at lower levels of welding energy.
The tensile lap shear strength, failure energy, and critical stress intensity of the welded joints first increase, reach their maximum values, and then decrease with increasing welding energy.
The tensile lap shear failure mode changes from interfacial fracture at lower energy levels, to nugget pull-out at intermediate optimal energy levels, and to transverse through-thickness (TTT) crack growth at higher energy levels.
The fatigue life is longer for the joints welded at an energy of 1400 J than 2000 J at higher cyclic loading levels.
The fatigue failure mode changes from nugget pull-out to TTT crack growth with decreasing cyclic loading for the joints welded at 1400 J, while TTT crack growth mode remains at all cyclic loading levels for the joints welded at 2000 J.
Fatigue crack basically initiates from the nugget edge, and propagates with "river-flow" patterns and characteristic fatigue striations.
To test the impact of three varying step-stress protocols on the fatigue behavior of two 3Y-TZP, one 4Y-TZP and one 5Y-TZP zirconia materials.
Eight specimens per zirconia material (N = 32) were selected for static testing to determine the start load for dynamic tests (30% of the mean value of static fracture load). 45 specimens per material (N = 180) were used for dynamic load tests using three step-stress protocols: 1. 50 N/5000 cycles; 2. 5% of static load/5000 cycles, and 3. 10 N/1000 cycles.
Following materials were tested: 3Y-TZP The step-stress protocols showed no impact on the fracture load or Weibull modulus within one zirconia material. However, the zirconia materials T, ET and HT showed differences in cycle number to fracture between the step-stress protocols (T: 3 > 2 > 1; ET: 2 > 3 > 1; HT: 2, 3 > 1) with lowest cycle number to fracture for protocol 1.
Within one step-stress protocol, the cycle number to fracture varied according to the zirconia material as follows: 1: T, O ≥ O, ET > HT; 2: ET > O, T, HT; 3: O, T, ET > HT.
Cracking started at the tensile side of the specimens at all times.
All specimens showed typical compression curls (single or double).
Fragmentation patterns were similar for all materials with a lot of crack branching and fragmentation due to secondary cracks indicating high energy fractures.
Dynamic fatigue tests seem to provide important information on the long-term stability of zirconia materials.
Zirconia materials with higher opacity seem to be more robust towards varying step-stress protocols than translucent zirconia materials.
Regarding expenditure of time, a step-stress protocol with a load increase of 50 N every 5000 cycles seems favorable to gain information on the long-term stability of zirconia materials.
This in vitro study evaluated the fatigue strength of different ceramic materials indicated for monolithic restorations.
Disc-shaped specimens were made according to ISO 6872 from five different ceramic materials: feldspathic ceramic (FC), polymer-infiltrated ceramic network (PIC), lithium disilicate glass-ceramic (LD), zirconia-reinforced lithium silicate glass-ceramic (ZLS), and high translucent tetragonal zirconia polycrystals doped by yttrium (YZ-HT).
After obtaining the mean of each material (n = 5) from monotonic load-to-failure tests, specimens (n = 20) were subjected to fatigue tests (staircase method) using a biaxial flexural setup (piston-on-three-balls), to determine the fatigue strength.
The parameters used for fatigue tests were: 100,000 cycles at 10 Hz, initial load of ~ 60% of mean load-to-failure, and step size of 5% of the initial load (specific for each ceramic material).
Kruskal-Wallis and Bonferroni's test (α = 0.05) were used to analyze the fatigue strength data.
Fatigue strength (MPa) of the materials was statistically different among each other as follows: YZ-HT (370.2 ± 38.7) > LD (175.2 ± 7.5) > ZLS (152.1 ± 7.5) > PIC (81.8 ± 3.9) > FC (50.8 ± 1.9).
Thus, it can be concluded that, in terms of fatigue, high translucent polycrystalline zirconia is the best choice for monolithic restorations as it bears the highest load before cracking/fracturing.
In the present work, structural fatigue experiments were performed on a Ti-26Nb alloy subjected to different thermomechanical treatments: a severe cold rolling, a solution treatment and two aging treatments at low-temperature conducted after cold rolling in order to optimize the kinetics of precipitation.
The aim is to investigate the effect of microstructural refinement obtained by these processes on fatigue performances.
Preliminary tensile tests were performed on each state and analyzed in terms of the microstructure documented by using X-Ray diffraction and TEM analysis.
These tests clearly promote the short-time-aged cold-rolled state with a fine α and ω phases precipitation.
An interesting balance between mechanical properties such as high strength and low Young's modulus has been obtained.
Cyclic bending tests were carried out in air at 0.5%, 1%, 2% and 3% imposed strain amplitudes.
At low straining amplitude, where the fatigue performances are at their best, the cold-rolled state does not break at 3×10
The quasi-static and low cycle fatigue tests of extruded 7075 Al alloy (Φ200 mm) were investigated in three directions: the extrusion direction (ED), the radial direction (RD), and 45° with ED (45°).
Grain morphology analysis, texture measurement, and fatigue fracture characterization were conducted to discuss the relationship between microstructure and mechanical properties.
The experimental results showed that the ED specimen had higher ultimate tensile strength (UTS) and low cycle fatigue (LCF) properties, which were mainly attributed to the following three causes.
First, the grain boundaries (GBs) had an obvious effect on the crack growth.
The number of GBs in the three directions was different due to the shape of the grains elongated along the ED.
Second, the sharp <111> texture and the small Schmidt factor along the ED explained the higher ultimate tensile strength (UTS) of the ED specimens.
Third, fatigue fracture observation showed that the ED specimen had a narrow fatigue striation spacing, which indicated that the plastic deformation of the ED specimen was the smallest in each cycle.
In addition, two fatigue prediction models were established to predict the LCF life of extruded 7075 Al alloy, based on the life response behavior of the three directions under different strains.
Intermetallic alloys, recognized for the long-range atomic ordering and resultant impressive mechanical properties, are highly sought after in various advanced fields, including aerospace, automotive, and nuclear energy.
However, their widespread application is still hindered seriously due to the poor fatigue endurance.
Here, we design a new-type L1
Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (PE) has been used for more than forty years as the bearing surface in total joint replacements.
In recent years, there have been numerous advances in processing conditions that have improved the wear resistance of this material. In particular, crosslinking has been shown to dramatically improve the wear behavior of this orthopedic polymer in simulator studies.
This benefit to wear resistance, however, is accompanied by a decrease in mechanical properties such as ultimate tensile strength, ductility, toughness and fatigue resistance.
This degradation to mechanical properties may have serious implications for devices with high stress concentrations or large cyclic contact stresses.
Tailoring microstructure for improved structural performance is essential for implant design.
In this work we examined the role of crystallinity and crosslinking on the microstructure and mechanical properties of PE.
Crystallinity was increased with a high pressure process and crosslinking was obtained with gamma irradiation.
Crystallinity was beneficial to fatigue crack propagation resistance and when coupled with crosslinking a polymer with both wear and fatigue resistance was obtained.
Sudden fatigue failure of metallic structures triggers thousands of safety accidents annually, causing tens of thousands of casualties and economic losses approaching $100 billion.
Traditional detection techniques face challenges in capturing early fatigue damage features like subnanometer atomic displacements and localized metal bond ruptures.
Based on the synchronized weakening mechanism between binding forces and exchange interactions during fatigue processes in ferromagnetic metals, this study obtained high-sensitivity fatigue observations by exciting the quantum spin correlation amplification effect via an external magnetic field.
We conducted fatigue tests on 193 ferromagnetic metal samples over 3700 cumulative hours, establishing a mapping relationship between fatigue-induced magnetic flux changes and the degree of binding force weakening.
This work integrated macroscopic fatigue life prediction with ferromagnetic material microstructural parameters, achieving a prediction accuracy with R
Cobalt-chromium-molybdenum (Co-Cr-Mo) femoral components are widely used in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) due to their mechanical strength and wear performance.
However, concerns regarding corrosion, metal ion release, and hypersensitivity have prompted the development of alternative materials, including nitrided titanium-aluminum-vanadium (nTi-6Al-4V).
This study aimed to compare the simulated wear performance of Co-Cr-Mo and nTi-6Al-4V femoral components when articulated against conventional polyethylene articular surface bearings and evaluate the fatigue performance of nTi-6Al-4V components.
In vitro wear testing, per ISO 14243-3, was conducted for 5 million cycles (Mc) using posterior-stabilized Persona Primary knee system femoral components manufactured from Co-Cr-Mo and nTi-6Al-4V coupled with conventional ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene articular surfaces.
Mean steady-state wear rates (mg/Mc) of the articular surface bearings were gravimetrically determined.
Surface roughness (Ra) measurements of the femoral components and the articulating surfaces were captured using a contacting stylus profilometer.
Polyethylene wear debris morphology was also analyzed.
Two fatigue loading scenarios (cantilever loading and three-point bend) of the posterior condyles of femoral components were completed for 10 Mc.
The mean steady-state wear rate of the nTi-6Al-4V bearing couple (17.0 ± 1.8 mg/Mc) was noninferior to the Co-Cr-Mo bearing couple (22.8 ± 6.7 mg/Mc).
No statistically significant differences were found in the Ra measurements of femoral components or articular surfaces before and after 5.0 Mc (
Study DesignBasic Science Study.ObjectivesTo determine the impact of rod composition and bending method on metal debris production during fatigue testing of posterolateral lumbar fusion constructs.MethodsPosterolateral lumbar fusion constructs were embedded into Ultra-High Molecular Weight Polyethylene (UHMW-PE) blocks and subject to fatigue testing, following a modified ASTM F1717-21 protocol including cycles of compression with novel axial rotation.
Variations in constructs included rod bending methods of pre-bent (PB) and surgeon-bent (SB) and rod compositions of titanium alloy (Ti) or cobalt chromium alloy (CC).
Constructs were wrapped in lactated ringer solution-soaked cotton, which was dissolved and analyzed for metal particulate using inductively coupled mass spectrometry (ICP-MS).ResultsMetal debris produced by surgeon-bent cobalt chromium and pre-bent cobalt chromium constructs did not have significant differences in quantity or quality.
Pre-bent cobalt chromium alloy rods produced a larger amount of chromium and cobalt metal debris than pre-bent titanium alloy rods.ConclusionsWe find that cobalt chromium alloy rods produce more metal debris than titanium alloy rods.
We find no evidence that rod bending method affects metal debris quality or quantity.
In considering factors that impact susceptibility to corrosion and metallosis, our data supports that rod composition, but not bending method, contributes significantly to metal debris production.
In this work, the endurance characteristics of Al-doped HfO
In the present study, effect of ultrasonic impact treatment (UIT) on the microstructural characterization and mechanical properties of 316L stainless steel (hereinafter referred to as 316L) was investigated experimentally.
The fatigue fracture mechanism of 316L before and after UIT was revealed.
The experimental results indicated that the martensitic grain size induced at the impact edge was about 2.00 Å.
The surface modified 316L formed a gradient nanostructure and induced a martensitic phase transformation.
The hardness of the surface layer of the modified 316L was twice the hardness of its matrix.
The tensile strengths of 316L before and after UIT were 576 MPa and 703 MPa, respectively.
The stretching stripes of 316L were more disordered after UIT.
The fatigue strengths of 316L before and after UIT were 267 MPa and 327 MPa, respectively.
The fatigue cracking of 316L started from the austenite grain boundaries.
The fatigue fracture surface was relatively rough.
The fatigue crack sources of the modified 316L came from internal inclusions.
The inclusions were oxides dominated by SiO2.
As the stress range increased, the crack initiation site migrated to the interior and the fatigue fracture surface became flatter.
Dielectric ceramics with relaxor characteristics are promising candidates to meet the demand for capacitors of next-generation pulse devices.
Herein, a lead-free Sb-modified (Sr
A lot of attention has recently been focused on wearable strain sensors because of their promising applications in the rising areas of human motion detection, health monitoring, and smart human-machine interaction.
However, the design and fabrication of self-healable strain sensors with superior overall properties including stretchability, sensitivity, response ability, stability, and durability is still a huge challenge.
Herein, we report an innovative self-healable strain sensor with exceptional overall performance constructed with three-dimensional binary-conductive-network silver nanowire-coated thiolated graphene foam (AgNWs@TGF) and room-temperature self-healing functionalized polyurethane (FPU) elastomer.
Taking advantage of the good ductility and continuity of the AgNWs@TGF binary structure and the excellent resilience of the FPU, the strain sensor exhibits good stretchability (up to 60% strain), high sensitivity [gauge factor (GF) of 11.8 at 60% strain and detection limit of 0.1% strain], fast response ability (response/recovery time of 40/84 ms), and exceptional durability for 800 cycles of fatigue test.
Besides, the highly flexible polydimethylsiloxane chains, strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, and dynamic exchange reaction of aromatic disulfides ensure the sensor excellent recovery property of electrical conductivity, and the GF of sensor after self-healed only increases slightly.
More importantly, the sensor is successfully applied for detecting a variety of human motions including pulse beats, voice recognitions, various joint movements, and handwriting.
The method for preparing room-temperature self-healable strain sensor is facile, scalable, and cost-effective.
The finds provide a new perspective on fabricating new-generation high-performance and functional strain sensors for health monitoring, wearable electronics, and intelligent robots.
Few studies have investigated the differences among various post-and-core systems under mastication simulation.
Comparing these systems while simulating the clinical environment should provide a more accurate assessment of their performance.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the fatigue resistance of conventional cast metal and prefabricated fiber post systems with computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacture (CAD-CAM) prefabricated nonmetal post-and-core systems.
Forty freshly extracted human maxillary premolars were endodontically treated and divided into 4 subgroups (n=10) according to the material: cast metal, zirconia, fiber-reinforced composite resin, prefabricated fiber post.
The post-and-core materials were manufactured either conventionally or milled with CAD-CAM technology.
All specimens were exposed to simultaneous mastication simulation (1.2 million cycles) and thermocycling (10 000 cycles at 5 °C to 55 °C) and analyzed based on failure of specimens.
Data were analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox-regression (α=.05).
Both cast metal and zirconia post-and-core groups had similar fatigue resistance (P>.05) but significantly higher fatigue resistance than the fiber-reinforced groups (P<.05).
Fiber-reinforced composite resin and prefabricated fiber post did not survive the mastication simulation, fracturing between 504 000 and 752 000 cycles, with fractures occurring in the cervical portion of the tooth.
Cast metal and zirconia post-and-core systems had improved physical properties with high resistance to fatigue when compared with fiber-reinforced post-and-core systems.
The development of high-performance energy storage materials is decisive for meeting the miniaturization and integration requirements in advanced pulse power capacitors.
In this study, we designed high-performance [(Bi
Inconel 718 (In718) is the most widely used nickel-based alloy in additive manufacturing due to its favorable processability.
However, In718's high-temperature performance is not suited for the most demanding applications in the aerospace industry.
Therefore, in this study, Inconel 718 powder was coated with 3% wt. rhenium (In718-Re) using AM's in situ alloying capabilities to improve high-temperature properties.
The proposed alloy's mechanical performance was evaluated, focusing on the effects of post-process heat treatment and hot isostatic pressing following the laser-based powder bed fusion of metals (PBF-LB/M) processing.
Static tensile tests conducted at room temperature and elevated temperatures (650 °C and 760 °C) demonstrated that the alloy has comparable strength to pure In718 according to ASTM F3055-14a-an ultimate tensile strength of 1247 MPa, yield strength of 909 MPa, and almost 2× higher elongation of 23.8%.
Fatigue tests at room temperature indicated a fatigue limit below 400 MPa for 10
For implant-supported hybrid prostheses, high mastication forces and reduced acrylic resin thickness over a metal substructure often cause failures arising from tooth or resin fractures.
To assay fracture resistance of artificial teeth and resin in implant-supported hybrid prostheses in relation to the titanium structure and retention design supporting teeth. 40 specimens bearing incisors were divided into four groups according to the titanium structure supporting the teeth and the type of load force applied: Group I (Control; n=10): Application of static loading to ten incisors set over a metal structure with internal retention.
Group II (Control; n=10): Application of static loading to ten incisors set over a metal structure with external retention.
The remaining study specimens (n=20) were subjected to 120,000 masticatory and thermal cycles in a chewing simulator.
Afterwards, static loading was applied until the point of fracture using an Instron machine.
Group III (Study; n=10): Application of dynamic and static loading to ten incisors set over a metal structure with internal retention.
Group IV (Study; n=10): Application of dynamic and static loading to ten incisors set over a metal structure with external retention.
Data obtained for the four groups was analyzed and compared, determining the type of fracture (cohesive or adhesive) using a reflected light microscope.
Statistical analysis confirmed that there were significant differences in fracture resistance between the four groups.
External retention was found to have more fracture resistance than the internal retention.
Hybrid prostheses with titanium substructures and external retention obtained significantly better results than samples with internal retention.
Chewing simulator, thermocycler, fatigue, implant-supported hybrid prosthesis, acrylic teeth, fracture, metal structure design.
Older adults with metastatic prostate cancer (mPC) experience high symptom burden associated with treatment.
Frailty may exacerbate treatment toxicity.
The aim of this study was to explore short-term treatment toxicity in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
Older adults with metastatic prostate cancer starting chemotherapy, androgen-receptor-axis targeted therapies, or radium-223 participated in a prospective, multicentre, observational study.
Participants self-reported symptoms daily using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System for one treatment cycle via internet or telephone.
The most common moderate-to-severe symptoms (score≥4), their duration, and the proportion of participants who experienced improvements in symptom severity (score<4) after reporting moderate-to-severe symptoms at baseline were determined using descriptive statistics.
Once-weekly symptom questionnaires were administered and analyzed using linear mixed effect models.
Symptom incidence, duration, and frailty associations were assessed using t-tests and chi-square tests.
Ninety participants completed the study (mean age=77 years [standard deviation=6.1], 42% frail [Vulnerable Elders Survey≥3]).
The most common moderate-to-severe symptoms across cohorts were fatigue (46.8%), insomnia (42.9%), poor wellbeing (41.2%), pain (37.5%), and decreased appetite (37.1%).
Poor wellbeing had a higher incidence in frail participants (62.5% in frail vs. 31.4% in non-frail, p=0.039).
Symptom duration varied across cohorts and between frail and non-frail participants.
Among participants who reported moderate-to-severe symptoms at baseline, no more than 15% improved in any symptom.
There were statistically significant improvements in weekly symptoms for fatigue, decreased appetite, and insomnia in the chemotherapy cohort only.
Limitations include a short follow-up duration, lack of a control group, and few radium-223 participants.
Regular symptom monitoring can help clinicians understand temporal patterns and durations of symptoms and inform supportive care approaches.
This study aims to deeply understand the effect of contact stress and slip ratio on wear performances of bainitic rail steels.
The results showed that the wear loss increased as the contact stress and slip ratio increased.
Based on the surface damage morphology and microstructural analyses, it revealed that the rolling contact fatigue wear mechanism played a significant role under the low slip ratio, but the dominant wear mechanism transferred to the abrasive wear at the high slip ratio.
Meanwhile, the bainitic steel specifically presented worse wear resistance under the abrasive wear mode.
Compared with the influence of a slip ratio, the increase in contact stress led to severer plastic flows and contributed to the propagation of cracks.
In addition, the contact stress and slip ratio had the opposite effect on the friction coefficient, that is, the friction coefficient of bainitic steels behaved the inverse proportion with the contact stress, but positive proportion with the slip ratio.
At last, the increase in slip ratio had more significant effect on the reduction of retained austenite (RA) than the enlargement of contact stress due to the fact that the RA would probably be removed before the martensitic transformation occurred under the abrasive wear mechanism.
The purpose of this laboratory study was to evaluate the fatigue resistance, fracture resistance and mode of failure of posterior hybrid-abutment-crown vs. hybrid-abutment with separate crown, both bonded to short titanium bases.
Thirty-two titanium implants were embedded perpendicularly in auto-polymerizing resin.
Implant-supported restorations simulating a maxillary first premolar were designed and milled using a CAD/CAM system and divided into 2 groups according to material (n = 16): zirconia (Z) and lithium disilicate (L).
Each group was subdivided into two subgroups according to design (n = 8): hybrid-abutment-crown (ZS, LS) and hybrid-abutment with separate crown (ZC, LC).
Each group was subjected to 1.2 million cycles of thermo-mechanical fatigue loading in a dual-axis chewing simulator at 120 N load.
Surviving specimens were subjected to quasi-static loading in a universal testing machine.
Mode of failure was determined under a low magnification optical microscope.
During chewing simulation, 18.8% of zirconia and 43.8% of lithium disilicate restorations failed.
The fracture resistance median values ranged from 3,730 N for group ZC, 3,400 N for group ZS, 1,295 N for group LS to 849 N for group LC.
Group ZC had a statistically significant higher fracture resistance than groups LC and LS; however, it did not differ significantly from group ZS (p ≤ 0.05).
Failures were seen in both titanium bases and ceramic superstructure.
Zirconia and lithium disilicate hybrid implant-supported restorations with short (3 mm) titanium bases failed in a considerable number already during chewing simulation.
Therefore, despite their high fracture strength the use in the posterior region should be considered critically.
Superelastic wires and diamond-shaped stent surrogates were manufactured from Nitinol rods and tubing, respectively, from five different mill product suppliers - Standard VAR, Standard VIM, Standard VIM+VAR, Process-Optimized VIM+VAR, and High-Purity VAR.
High-cycle fatigue tests up to 10(7) cycles were conducted under tension-tension conditions for wires and bending conditions for diamonds.
These materials were compared under both testing methods at 37°C with 6% prestrain and 3% mean strain (unloading plateau) with a range of alternating strains.
The High-Purity VAR material outperformed all alloys tested with a measured 10(7)-fatigue alternating strain limit of 0.32% for wire and 1.75% for diamonds.
Process-Optimized VIM+VAR material was only slightly inferior to the High Purity VAR with a diamond alternating bending strain limit of 1.5%.
These two "second generation" Nitinol alloys demonstrated approximately a 2× increase in 10(7)-cycle fatigue strain limit compared to all of the Standard-grade Nitinol alloys (VAR, VIM, and VIM+VAR) that demonstrated virtually indistinguishable fatigue performance.
This statistically-significant increase in fatigue resistance in the contemporary alloys is ascribed to smaller inclusions in the Process-Optimized VIM+VAR material, and both smaller and fewer inclusions in the High-Purity VAR Nitinol.
For posterior partial restorations an overlap of indication exists where either ceramic or resin-based composite materials can be successfully applied.
The aim of this study was to compare the fatigue resistance of modern dental ceramic materials versus dental resin composites in order to address such conflicts.
Bar specimens of five ceramic materials and resin composites were produced according to ISO 4049 and stored for 14 days in distilled water at 37°C.
The following ceramic materials were selected for testing: a high-strength zirconium dioxide (e.max ZirCAD, Ivoclar), a machinable lithium disilicate (e.max CAD, Ivoclar), a pressable lithium disilicate ceramic (e-max Press, Ivoclar), a fluorapatite-based glass-ceramic (e.max Ceram, Ivoclar), and a machinable color-graded feldspathic porcelain (Trilux Forte, Vita).
The composite materials selected were: an indirect machinable composite (Lava Ultimate, 3M ESPE) and four direct composites with varying filler nature (Clearfil Majesty Posterior, Kuraray; GrandioSO, Voco; Tetric EvoCeram, Ivoclar-Vivadent; and CeramX Duo, Dentsply).
Fifteen specimens were tested in water for initial strength (σin) in 4-point bending.
Using the same test set-up, the residual flexural fatigue strength (σff) was determined using the staircase approach after 10(4) cycles at 0.5 Hz (n=25).
Weibull parameters σ0 and m were calculated for the σin specimens, whereas the σff and strength loss in percentage were obtained from the fatigue experiment.
The zirconium oxide ceramic showed the highest σin and σff (768 and 440 MPa, respectively).
Although both lithium disilicate ceramics were similar in the static test, the pressable version showed a significantly higher fatigue resistance after cyclic loading.
Both the fluorapatite-based and the feldspathic porcelain showed equivalent initial and cyclic fatigue properties.
From the composites, the highest filled direct material Clearfil Majesty Posterior showed superior fatigue performance.
From all materials, e.max Press and Clearfil Majesty Posterior showed the lowest strength loss (29.6% and 32%, respectively), whereas the other materials lost between 41% and 62% of their flexural strength after cyclic loading.
Dental ceramics and resin composite materials show equivalent fatigue strength degradation at loads around 0.5σin values.
Apart from the zirconium oxide and the lithium disilicate ceramics, resin composites generally showed better σff after 10,000 cycles than the fluorapatite glass-ceramic and the feldspathic porcelain.
Resin composite restorations may be used as an equivalent alternative to glass-rich-ceramic inlays regarding mechanical performance.
The 7075 aluminum alloy is a promising material for the aerospace industry due to its combination of light weight and high strength.
This study proposed a method for predicting fatigue crack initiation of the 7075 aluminum alloy by crystal plasticity finite element analysis considering microstructures.
In order to accurately predict the total fatigue life, it is necessary to calculate the number of cycles for fatigue crack initiation, small crack growth, and long crack growth.
The long crack growth life can be estimated by the Paris law, but fatigue crack initiation and small crack growth are sensitive to the microstructures and have been difficult to predict.
In this work, the microstructure of 7075 aluminum alloy was reconstructed based on experimental observations in the literature and crystal plasticity simulations were performed to calculate the elasto-plastic deformation behavior in the reconstructed polycrystalline model under cyclic deformation.
The calculated local plastic strain was introduced into the crack initiation criterion (Tanaka and Mura, 1981) to predict fatigue crack initiation life.
The predicted crack initiation life and crack morphology were in good agreement with the experimental results, indicating that the proposed method is effective in predicting fatigue crack initiation in aluminum alloys.
From the obtained results, future issues regarding the prediction of fatigue crack initiation were discussed.
Soy protein isolate (SPI) is envisioned as a promising alternative to fabricate "green" flexible electronics, showing great potential in the field of flexible wearable electronics.
However, it is challenging to simultaneously achieve conductive film-based human motion-monitoring strain sensors with reliable fatigue resistance, robust mechanical property, environmental degradability, and sensing capability of human motions.
Herein, we prepared a series of SPI-based nanocomposite films by embedding a surface-hydroxylated high-dielectric constant inorganic filler, BaTiO
Li metal is an ideal anode for next-generation batteries because of its high theoretical capacity and low potential. However, the unevenly distributed stress in Li metal anodes (LMAs) induced by volume fluctuation may cause the electrode to fracture easily, especially during high-rate plating/stripping processes.
Here fracture-resistant LMAs using the concept of bulk nanostructured materials are designed via a metallurgical process.
In bulk nanostructured Li (BNL), ionic conducting phases exist at grain boundaries, which promote Li
Ag paste has been recognized as a promising substitute for Sn/Pb solder in SiC or GaN power electronic devices, owing to its ability to withstand high temperatures and facilitate low-temperature packing.
The reliability of these high-power circuits is greatly influenced by the mechanical properties of sintered Ag paste.
However, there exist substantial voids inside the sintered silver layer after sintering, and the conventional macroscopic constitutive models have certain limitation to describe the shear stress-strain relationship of sintered silver materials.
To analyze the void evolution and microstructure of sintered silver, Ag composite pastes composed of micron flake silver and nano-silver particles were prepared.
The mechanical behaviors were studied at different temperatures (0-125 °C) and strain rates (1 × 10
This study investigates the very-high-cycle fatigue (VHCF) behavior at elevated temperature (650 °C) of the Inconel 718 alloy fabricated by selective laser melting (SLM).
The results are compared with those of the wrought alloy.
Large columnar grain with a cellular structure in the grain interior and Laves/δ phases precipitated along the grain boundaries were exhibited in the SLM alloy, while fine equiaxed grains were present in the wrought alloy.
The elevated temperature had a minor effect on the fatigue resistance in the regime below 10
A crystal plasticity finite-element model, which explicitly and directly represents the complex microstructures of a non-metallic agglomerate inclusion within polycrystal nickel alloy, has been developed to study the mechanistic basis of fatigue crack nucleation.
The methodology is to use the crystal plasticity model in conjunction with direct measurement at the microscale using high (angular) resolution-electron backscatter diffraction (HR-EBSD) and high (spatial) resolution-digital image correlation (HR-DIC) strain measurement techniques.
Experimentally, this sample has been subjected to heat treatment leading to the establishment of residual (elastic) strains local to the agglomerate and subsequently loaded under conditions of low cyclic fatigue.
The full thermal and mechanical loading history was reproduced within the model.
HR-EBSD and HR-DIC elastic and total strain measurements demonstrate qualitative and quantitative agreement with crystal plasticity results.
Crack nucleation by interfacial decohesion at the nickel matrix/agglomerate inclusion boundaries is observed experimentally, and systematic modelling studies enable the mechanistic basis of the nucleation to be established.
A number of fatigue crack nucleation indicators are also assessed against the experimental results.
Decohesion was found to be driven by interface tensile normal stress alone, and the interfacial strength was determined to be in the range of 1270-1480 MPa.
The paper presents the results of tests on a die insert made of non-standardised chrome-molybdenum-vanadium tool steel used during pre-forging, the life of which was 6000 forgings, while the average life for such tools is 8000 forgings.
It was withdrawn from production due to intensive wear and premature breakage.
In order to determine the causes of increased tool wear, a comprehensive analysis was carried out, including 3D scanning of the working surface; numerical simulations, with particular emphasis on cracking (according to the C-L criterion); and fractographic and microstructural tests.
The results of numerical modelling in conjunction with the obtained results of structural tests allowed us to determine the causes of cracks in the working area of the die, which were caused by high cyclical thermal and mechanical loads and abrasive wear due to intensive flow of the forging material. It was found that the resulting fracture initiated as a multi-centric fatigue fracture continued to develop as a multifaceted brittle fracture with numerous secondary faults.
Microscopic examinations allowed us to evaluate the wear mechanisms of the insert, which included plastic deformation and abrasive wear, as well as thermo-mechanical fatigue.
As part of the work carried out, directions for further research were also proposed to improve the durability of the tested tool.
In addition, the observed high tendency to cracking of the tool material used, based on impact tests and determination of the
Due to traits of CMOS compatibility and scalability, HfO
This study aims to evaluate the fatigue resistance of monolithic zirconia (Yz) and multilayer ceramic structures using the CAD-on technique in different thicknesses.
Fifty (N=50) standardized single crowns preparations were made in fiberglass-reinforced epoxy resin (NEMA grade G10), digitalized, and restorations were machined in CAD-CAM, composing 5 groups (n= 10): Control: 1.5 mm (milled zirconia framework + manual layered porcelain); Yz monolithic 1.5 mm; Yz monolithic 1.0 mm; CAD-on 1.5 mm; and CAD-on 1.0 mm (milled zirconia framework 0.5 mm thickness bonded by a low fuse ceramic to a milled lithium disilicate layer of 1.0 mm or 0.5 mm, respectively).
The G10 bases were conditioned with 10% hydrofluoric acid; the crowns were air abraded with 110 μm alumina particles; and then luted onto each other with self-adhesive resin cement.
A cyclic fatigue test was performed (initial load: 400N for 10,000 cycles, frequency of 20 Hz, step size of 200N) until failure, and the data was submitted to a survival statistical analysis.
No failures were observed at Yz monolithic 1.5 mm. High and similar performance was observed for Cad-On groups and Yz monolithic 1.0 mm. The control group depicted the worst behavior.
The Weibull modulus of CAD-on 1.5 mm was higher than the control while being similar to the other conditions.
Both the monolithic systems and the CAD-on technique showed high and similar fatigue fracture behavior and survival rates, which were also higher than the control bilayer system.
Both systems reduced the occurrence of delamination failures, making them suitable for clinical use.
Este estudo teve como objetivo avaliar o comportamento à fadiga de estruturas cerâmicas monolíticas de zircônia (Yz) e multicamadas utilizando a técnica CAD-on em diferentes espessuras.
Cinquenta (N=50) preparos unitários padronizados foram confeccionados em resina epóxi reforçada com fibra de vidro (NEMA grau G10), digitalizados e as restaurações usinadas em CAD-CAM, compondo 5 grupos (n= 10): Controle: 1,5 mm (estrutura de zircônia fresada + porcelana estratificada manualmente); Yz monolítica 1,5 mm; Yz monolítica 1,0 mm; CAD-on em 1,5 mm; e CAD-on 1,0 mm (estrutura de zircônia fresada com 0,5 mm de espessura ligada por uma cerâmica de baixa fusão a uma camada de dissilicato de lítio fresado de 1,0 mm ou 0,5 mm, respectivamente).
As bases do G10 foram condicionadas com ácido fluorídrico a 10%; as coroas foram jateadas com partículas de alumina de 110 μm; e então cimentadas uma sobre a outra com cimento resinoso autoadesivo.
Foi realizado um teste de fadiga cíclica (carga inicial: 400N para 10.000 ciclos, frequência de 20 Hz,
Computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing (CAD-CAM) technology and the improved translucency of recently developed high-strength monolithic zirconia could make them clinically acceptable for veneers if bonding to zirconia was as predictable as to glass-ceramics.
Few studies have compared how resin cements behave between glass-ceramic and zirconia veneers before and after polymerization.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the volumetric polymerization shrinkage of resin cement, marginal discrepancy, and cement thickness before and after polymerization for glass-ceramic and zirconia veneers with light-polymerizing resin cement.
Ten lithium disilicate veneers and 10 zirconia veneers were fabricated with a CAD-CAM workflow on extracted human maxillary anterior teeth with intact enamel surfaces.
Zirconia veneers were treated with airborne-particle abrasion, and lithium disilicate veneers were etched with 5% hydrofluoric acid.
All specimens were treated with ceramic primer and cemented with a light-polymerized resin cement.
All specimens were scanned before and after resin cement polymerization by microcomputed tomography.
The data were processed by the Amira software program to compare polymerization volumetric shrinkage, cement thickness, and marginal discrepancy.
The data were compared by using a t test and analysis of variance (α=.05).
Two bonded veneers were loaded in a mastication simulator for 400 000 cycles to investigate the effect of cyclic fatigue loading.
Mean volumetric polymerization shrinkage was 4.2 ±0.8% for the lithium disilicate group and 6.4 ±3.5% for the zirconia group.
No significant difference was found for volumetric shrinkage between materials (P=.132).
The mean ±standard deviations of the marginal discrepancies before and after polymerization were 178 ±41 μm and 158 ±37 μm for lithium disilicate and 115 ±33 μm and 107 ±32 μm for zirconia.
A smaller marginal discrepancy was found for both materials after polymerization (P=.011) and for zirconia compared with lithium disilicate (P=.004).
The mean ±standard deviation cement thickness values before and after polymerization were 157 ±27 μm and 147 ±27 μm for lithium disilicate and 162 ±53 μm and 147 ±52 μm for zirconia.
Smaller cement thickness was found after polymerization (P<.001), whereas no significant difference was found in cement thickness between materials (P=.144).
No changes were noted in marginal discrepancy and cement thickness as a result of the fatigue loading.
The difference in the volumetric polymerization shrinkage of cement between lithium disilicate and zirconia veneers was not statistically significant.
Polymerization shrinkage resulted in smaller marginal discrepancy and cement thickness for both veneer materials.
During service, bearing components experience rolling cyclic fatigue (RCF), resulting in subsurface plasticity and decay of the parent microstructure.
The accumulation of micro strains spans billions of rolling cycles, resulting in the continuous evolution of the bearing steel microstructure.
The bearing steel composition, non-metallic inclusions, continuously evolving residual stresses, and substantial work hardening, followed by subsurface softening, create further complications in modelling bearing steel at different length scales.
The current study presents a multiscale overview of modelling RCF in terms of plastic deformation and the corresponding microstructural alterations.
This article investigates previous models to predict microstructural alterations and material hardening approaches widely adopted to mimic the cyclic hardening response of the evolved bearing steel microstructure.
This review presents state-of-the-art, relevant reviews in terms of this subject and provides a robust academic critique to enhance the understanding of the elastoplastic response of bearing steel under non-proportional loadings, damage evolution, and the formation mechanics of microstructural alterations, leading to the increased fatigue life of bearing components.
It is suggested that a multidisciplinary approach at various length scales is required to fully understand the micromechanical and metallurgical response of bearing steels widely used in industry.
This review will make significant contributions to novel design methodologies and improved product design specifications to deliver the durability and reliability of bearing elements.
Fatigue failure of metallic structures is of great concern to industrial applications.
A material will not be practically useful if it is prone to fatigue failures.
To take the advantage of lately emerged high-entropy alloys (HEAs) for designing novel fatigue-resistant alloys, we compiled a fatigue database of HEAs from the literature reported until the beginning of 2022.
The database is subdivided into three categories, i.e., low-cycle fatigue (LCF), high-cycle fatigue (HCF), and fatigue crack growth rate (FCGR), which contain 15, 23, and 28 distinct data records, respectively.
Each data record in any of three categories is characteristic of a summary, which is comprised of alloy compositions, key fatigue properties, and additional information influential to, or interrelated with, fatigue (e.g., material processing history, phase constitution, grain size, uniaxial tensile properties, and fatigue testing conditions), and an individual dataset, which makes up the original fatigue testing curve.
Some representative individual datasets in each category are graphically visualized.
The dataset is hosted in an open data repository, Materials Cloud.
The distribution of surface integrity features directly affects the initiation and propagation of fatigue cracks.
In this paper, the surface integrity characteristics changing law of turning and ultrasonic impacting specimens during high cycle fatigue loading has been studied, and the effect of surface modified layer on the fatigue properties of titanium alloy has been revealed.
The results showed that the surface roughness increased with the increase of fatigue cycles.
The compressive residual stress and its gradient distribution depth decreased continuously.
The gradient distribution depth of residual stress in the ultrasonic-impacted surface rapidly decreased by about 50% near the fracture stage.
Local cyclic hardening occurred at 20-50 μm from the surface of the specimen in the early stage of fatigue evolution, and then the microhardness continued to decrease.
During this process, there were no significant changes in hardened layer depth.
The fibrous microstructure of the ultrasonic-impacted surface undergoes a process from coarsening to gradual disintegration during the fatigue process.
Its attenuation process needs a longer period of time.
The fatigue source of the turned specimen was located at about 320 μm from the surface, and the fatigue source of ultrasonic impact was about 610 μm from the surface.
The fatigue striation width of the ultrasonic impact specimen was about 20% narrower than that of the turned specimen.
The fatigue life of the ultrasonic impact specimen was increased by 73.9% compared with the turned specimen.
The research in this paper is of great significance for exploring the anti-fatigue mechanism and the ability of various surface integrity features.
To determine the type and amount of wear produced by experimental metal-on-metal artificial discs for the lumbar spine.
To minimize the amount of wear by changing the carbon content, clearance, and presence of a keel and notch.
In contrast to the extensive number of hip joint replacement simulator studies examining the effects of individual design variables on wear, existing artificial lumbar disc wear publications have measured wear using only the final version of each product.
That is, the effects of individual variables such as material, diameter, or clearance on wear of artificial discs are not known, even though the importance of such variables has been established in artificial hip wear studies.
Experimental metal-on-metal artificial discs for the lumbar spine were tested in a 3-station, biaxial spine wear simulator designed and constructed by the investigators.
Two versions of the implants were manufactured with differences in carbon content, clearance, and the presence of a keel.
Additionally, implants were tested with or without a surgical notch.
The wear rates of the experimental metal-on-metal lumbar discs in the current study ranged from 6.2 to 15.8 mm3/million cycles.
However, changing the carbon content of the ball from low to high, decreasing the initial clearance, and eliminating the anteroposterior keel reduced the wear rate from 12.4 to 7.6 mm3/million cycles.
Furthermore, removing the surgical notch reduced the wear rate from 7.6 to 6.2 mm3/million cycles.
The surface damage was generally consistent with low lubrication and varying degrees of abrasive and fatigue wear, with impingement of nonbearing surfaces observed at 1.5 million cycles for the longer-term test.
Although the implants tested in the current study were experimental, the results suggest that metal-on-metal lumbar discs have the potential to produce wear of this magnitude and mechanism in vivo.
Therefore, careful consideration of individual design variables, including those considered in the current study, is necessary to avoid production of excessive wear in artificial lumbar discs.
ASTM F2028-14 was adopted to recom mend a cyclic eccentric glenoid edge loading test that simulates the rocking horse loading mechanism beleived to cause aTSA glenoid loosening.
While this method accurately simulates that failure mechanism, the recommended 750 N load may not be sufficient to simulate worst-case loading magnitudes, and the recommended 100,000 cycles may not be sufficient to simulate device fatigue-related failure modes.
Finally, if greater loading magnitude or a larger number of cycles is performed, the recommended substrate density may not be sufficiently strong to support the elevated loads and cycles.
To this end, a new test method is proposed to supplement ASTM F2028-14.
A series of cyclic tests were performed to evaluate the long-term fixation strength of two different hybrid glenoid designs in both low (15 pcf) and high (30 pcf) density polyurethane blocks at elevated loads relative to ASTM F2028-14.
To simulate a worst case clinical condition in which the humeral head is superiorly migrated, a cyclic load was applied to the superior glenoid rim to induce a maximum torque on the fixation pegs for three different cyclic loading tests: 1. 1,250 N load for 0.75 M cycles in a 15 pcf block, 2. 1,250 N load for 1.5 M cycles in a 30 pcf block, and 3. 2,000 N load for 0.65 M cycles in a 30 pcf block.
All devices completed cyclic loading without failure, fracture, or loss of fixation regardless of glenoid design, polyurethane density, loading magnitude, or cycle length.
No significant difference in post-cyclic displacement was noted between designs in any of the three tests.
Post-cyclic radiographs demonstrated that each device maintained fixa - tion with the metal pegs within the bone-substitute blocks with no fatigue related failures.
These results demonstrate that both cemented hybrid glenoids maintained fixation when tested according to each cyclic loading scenario, with no difference in post-cyclic displacement observed between designs.
The lack of fatigue-related failures in these elevated load and high cycle test scenarios are promising, as are the relatively low displacements given the extreme nature of each test.
This cyclic loading method is intended to supplement the ASTM F2028-14 standard that adequately simulates the rocking horse loading mechanism but may not adequately simulate the fatigue-related failure modes.
In this paper, studies were conducted to investigate the deformation behavior and microstructure change in a hot-rolled AZ31B magnesium alloy during a tensile-tensile cyclic loading.
The relationship between ratcheting effect and microstructure change was discussed.
The ratcheting effect in the material during current tensile-tensile fatigue loading exceeds the material's fatigue limit and the development of ratcheting strain in the material experienced three stages: initial sharp increase stage (Stage I); steady stage (Stage II); and final abrupt increase stage (Stage III).
Microstructure changes in Stage I and Stage II are mainly caused by activation of basal slip system.
The Extra Geometrically Necessary Dislocations (GNDs) were also calculated to discuss the relationship between the dislocation caused by the basal slip system and the ratcheting strain during the cyclic loading.
In Stage III, both the basal slip and the {11-20} twins are found active during the crack propagation.
The fatigue crack initiation in the AZ31B magnesium alloy is found due to the basal slip and the {11-20} tensile twins.
In the energy production and transportation industries, numerous metallic structures may be subjected to at least several billions of cycles, i.e. loaded in the very high cycle fatigue domain (VHCF).
Therefore, to design structures in the VHCF domain, a reliable methodology is necessary.
One useful quantity to characterize plastic activity at the microscopic scale and fatigue damage evolution is the mechanical work supplied to a material. However, the estimation of this mechanical work in a metal during ultrasonic fatigue tests remains challenging.
This paper aims to present an innovative methodology to quantify this.
An experimental procedure was developed to estimate the mechanical work from stress and total strain evolution measurements during one loading cycle with a time accuracy of about 50 ns.
This was achieved by conducting time-resolved X-ray diffraction coupled to strain gauge measurements at a synchrotron facility working in pulsed mode (single-bunch mode).
This study evaluated the probability of survival and failure mode of endodontically treated incisors without ferrule restored with CAD/CAM FRC post-cores.
Root canals of bovine incisors were treated, leaving post preparations of ∼10 mm. Teeth were allocated into three groups: (i) cast metal post-core, (ii) FRC prefabricated post with a direct resin core build-up, and (iii) CAD/CAM FRC post-core.
Posts and zirconia crowns were cemented using resin cement.
Specimens were subjected to step-stress accelerated-life fatigue testing in water.
Use level probability Weibull curves, probability of survival for a mission of 100,000 cycles at 25, 50, and 100 N, Weibull modulus, and characteristic strength were calculated and plotted.
Failure mode was examined under a stereomicroscope.
Restored incisors demonstrated high probability of survival (93-100%) for missions estimated at 25 and 50 N, irrespective of post-core foundation.
At 100 N, incisors restored with metal posts presented significantly higher probability of survival (99%) relative to CAD/CAM posts (79%), whereas FRC groups demonstrated no significant difference.
Weibull analysis indicated no significant difference on the Weibull modulus (m = 3.38-5.92).
Incisors reconstructed with metal post-cores (431 N) presented significantly higher characteristic strength relative to prefabricated (200 N) and CAD/CAM (202 N) FRC post-cores.
While post fracture was the chief failure mode for prefabricated and CAD/CAM FRC post-cores, post and/or root fracture were the main event for metal post-cores.
Endodontically treated incisors without ferrule restored with CAD/CAM FRC post-cores presented promising probability of survival for loads compatible with anterior masticatory forces and favorable failure modes.
Customized glass fiber posts using CAD-CAM technology have been suggested for restoring endodontically treated teeth.
However, how weakened or non-weakened roots restored with anatomical CAD-CAM posts behave under cyclic fatigue is not clear.
To evaluate the load-bearing capacity under fatigue (fatigue failure load [FFL], the number of cycles for failure [CFF], and survival probabilities) and fracture pattern of weakened and non-weakened roots restored with CAD-CAM fiber post and cores, metal cast-post-core, and prefabricated fiber post and resin core.
A total of 60 crack-free bovine incisor roots (13 mm in length) with standard geometry were obtained and randomly allocated considering the factor "root condition" in two levels (weakened and non-weakened).
Thus, half of the roots were weakened to obtain a wall thickness of 0.5 mm. After that, the endodontic treatment was executed, all roots embedded with acrylic resin and the specimens randomly allocated (n=10) considering the factor "post system" in three levels (CAD-CAM: CAD-CAM milled glass-fiber post and core; MBC: metallic-based post and core; and FRC: prefabricated glass-fiber post and composite resin core).
The posts were luted with a dual-cure self-adhesive luting agent.
Then, all teeth received a metallic crown.
An initial load of 100 N at 20 Hz for 5000 cycles was applied for the step-stress fatigue test, followed by incremental steps of 50 N for 20,000 cycles each step, up to failure.
A fracture pattern analysis was performed.
CAD-CAM fiber post (FFL: 865 N; CFF: 311,000 cycles) presented similar fatigue performance (p>0.05) to FRC (FFL: 925 N; CFF: 335,000 cycles), with 100% of repairable fractures for non-weakened roots; however, both groups presented worse performance than MBC (p<0.05; FFL: 1265 N; CFF: 471,000 cycles) which led to 100% of catastrophic failures.
No statistical difference was found in fatigue performance among the three systems for weakened roots (p>0.05; FFL: 1035-1170 N; CFF: 379,000-433,000 cycles), with a high rate of catastrophic failures.
CAD-CAM fiber post presented similar fatigue performance to MBC and FRC approaches when restoring weakened roots.
CADCAM was similar to FRC when restoring non-weakened roots, while MBC enhanced fatigue properties in this scenario.
The present study reports on the corrosion fatigue behavior of ultrafine-grained (UFG) Niobium 2 wt-% Zirconium (NbZr) alloy in simulated body fluid (SBF).
The alloy was processed using multipass equal channel angular processing at room temperature, resulting in a favorable combination of high strength and ductility along with superior biocompatibility and excellent corrosion resistance.
Electrochemical measurements revealed stable passive behavior in SBF saline solutions, similar to conventional Ti-6Al-4V alloy.
High-cycle fatigue tests showed no alteration in the crack initiation behavior due to the SBF environment, and an absence of pitting and corrosion products.
More severe test conditions were obtained in the fatigue crack growth experiments in saline environments.
Crack growth rates in UFG NbZr were marginally increased in SBF as compared to laboratory air at a constant test frequency of 20 Hz.
Upon a 100 fold decrease in the test frequency, slightly higher crack growth rates were observed only in the near-threshold region.
Such excellent corrosion and corrosion fatigue properties of UFG NbZr recommend it as an attractive new material for biomedical implants.
Fatigue limit load is one of the most important and concerned factors in designing and manufacturing critical mechanical parts such as the crankshafts.
Usually, this governing parameter is obtained by experiment, which is expensive, time-consuming and only feasible in analyzing the case of simple structure.
Still, there's a big obstacle to clear to get the fatigue limit load of a sophisticated structure effectively and efficiently.
This paper applied the stress field intensity theory to make quick component fatigue limit load predictions.
First, the field diameter of a given crankshaft was determined based on its limit stress state and a stress distribution fitting approach.
Then, this parameter was used to predict the high-cycle bending fatigue limit load of a new crankshaft composed of the same material. Finally, a corresponding experimental verification was conducted to evaluate the accuracy of the predictions.
The results indicated that the original stress field intensity model may not be suitable due to the errors in the predictions, which can be attributed to the structural features.
The new model proposed in this paper can provide higher accuracy in quick fatigue load prediction, making it superior to the traditional model in engineering application.
Flexible magnetic sensors, which have advantages such as deformability, vector field sensing, and noncontact detection, are an important branch of flexible electronics and have significant applications in fields such as magnetosensitive electronic skin.
Human skin surfaces have complicated deformations, which pose a demand for magnetic sensors that can withstand omnidirectional strain while maintaining stable performance.
However, existing flexible magnetic sensor arrays can only withstand stretching along specific directions and are prone to failure under complicated deformations.
Here, we demonstrate an omnidirectionally stretchable spin-valve sensor array with high stretchability and excellent performance.
By integrating the modulus-distributed structure with liquid metal, the sensor can maintain its performance under complex deformations, enabling the overall system with omnidirectional stretchability.
The fabricated spin-valve sensor exhibits a nearly unchanged giant magnetoresistance ratio of 8% and a maximum sensitivity of 0.93%/Oe upon omnidirectional strain up to 86% and can maintain stable performance without fatigue for over 1000 stretching cycles.
Furthermore, this spin-valve sensor array is characterized by stable sensing performance for magnetic fields under complicated deformations and can be applied as a magnetosensitive electronic skin.
Our results provide insights into the development of next-generation stretchable and wearable magnetoelectronics.
Whether a computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacture (CAD-CAM) fabricated high-translucency lithium disilicate veneer on a lithium disilicate substructure would increase the strength of the restoration compared with a traditional feldspathic porcelain veneer is unclear.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the effect of different lithium disilicate veneer application methods on a lithium disilicate substructure on their biaxial flexural stress (BFS).
Lithium disilicate disks were fabricated so that when combined with the veneering disks, they had a dimension of 12×1.2 mm. Experimental groups were as follows (n=15): resin-bonded lithium disilicate veneer, lithium disilicate veneer adhesively cemented to lithium disilicate; sintered lithium disilicate veneer, lithium disilicate veneer sintered to lithium disilicate; sintered feldspathic veneer, feldspathic porcelain applied to lithium disilicate; and monolithic lithium disilicate, the control group.
Weibull distribution survival analysis was used to compare the differences in the resistance to fracture after fatigue.
The total number of cycles was analyzed by using 1-way ANOVA (α=.05).
A finite element analysis (FEA) was also performed.
The maximum principal stress (MPS) was used as the failure criterion.
The sintered feldspathic veneer group had significantly lower fatigue resistance than sintered lithium disilicate veneer or resin-bonded lithium disilicate veneer (P<.05).
The resin-bonded lithium disilicate veneer group showed significantly more fractured fragments than the other groups.
No statistical difference was observed in the number of cycles.
The lithium disilicate veneered groups presented similar resistance to fatigue as the monolithic specimens of the same overall dimensions.
Higher peaks of MPS were observed for groups monolithic lithium disilicate, sintered lithium disilicate veneer, and sintered feldspathic veneer than for resin-bonded lithium disilicate veneer.
Veneering a lithium disilicate substructure with a lithium disilicate veneer, bonded or sintered, increased resistance to fatigue compared with a feldspathic porcelain veneer.
The lithium disilicate veneer groups had similar fatigue resistance to that of the monolithic group.
Developments in dental materials, CAD/CAM technologies and adhesive dentistry have improved the application of conservative restorations such as endocrowns and onlays.
Among ceramics, zirconia has properties such as high strength, transformation toughening, chemical and structural durability, and biocompatibility, which enable zirconia to be used in the posterior area.
This study is a comparative evaluation of fracture resistance and failure modes in endodontically treated molars restored with zirconia endocrown and onlays.
This study was performed on 20 human mandibular first molars with similar dimensions.
After root canal treatment, the samples were divided into two groups: endocrowns and onlays (n=10).
Restorations were made using a CAD-CAM milling machine with zirconia CAD blocks and, after cementation, subjected to 10,000 thermocycling and 500,000 fatigue cycle procedures, respectively.
Each specimen was placed on a Universal Testing Machine and subjected to axial compressive force applied at a crosshead speed of 0.5 mm/min.
The mean loads of failure of each group were statistically compared using the Student t-test.
Chi-square tests were used to compare frequencies of failure modes among groups.
Fracture resistance showed a statistically significant difference between endocrown (5374.6810±670.03445 N) and onlay (3312.5000±804.01428 N) (p<0.001).
No statistically significant difference was detected in the distribution of failure types among the groups (p>0.05).
The fracture resistance of endocrown is substantially higher than that of onlay, and failure type does not differ in both restorations.
Zirconia is a reliable material to use in conservative restorations.
In the present work, we postulate that a critical value of the stored plastic strain energy density (SPSED) is associated with fatigue failure in metals and is independent of the applied load.
Unlike the classical approach of estimating the (homogenized) SPSED as the cumulative area enclosed within the macroscopic stress-strain hysteresis loops, we use crystal plasticity finite element simulations to compute the (local) SPSED at each material point within polycrystalline aggregates of a nickel-based superalloy.
A Bayesian inference method is used to calibrate the critical SPSED, which is subsequently used to predict fatigue lives at nine different strain ranges, including strain ratios of 0.05 and -1, using nine statistically equivalent microstructures.
For each strain range, the predicted lives from all simulated microstructures follow a lognormal distribution.
Moreover, for a given strain ratio, the predicted scatter is seen to be increasing with decreasing strain amplitude; this is indicative of the scatter observed in the fatigue experiments.
Finally, the lognormal mean lives at each strain range are in good agreement with the experimental evidence.
Since the critical SPSED captures the experimental data with reasonable accuracy across various loading regimes, it is hypothesized to be a material property and sufficient to predict the fatigue life.
The nuclear reactor pressure vessel is an important component of a nuclear power plant.
It has been used in harsh environments such as high temperature, high pressure, neutron irradiation, thermal aging, corrosion and fatigue for a long time, which puts forward higher standards for the performance requirements for nuclear pressure vessel steel.
Based on the characteristics of large size and wall thickness of the nuclear pressure vessel, combined with its performance requirements, this work studies the problems of forging technology, mechanical properties, irradiation damage, corrosion failure, thermal aging behavior and fatigue properties, and summarizes the research progress of nuclear pressure vessel materials.
The influencing factors of microstructures evolution and mechanism of mechanical properties change of nuclear pressure vessel steel are analyzed in this work.
The mechanical properties before and after irradiation are compared, and the influence mechanisms of irradiation hardening and embrittlement are also summarized.
Although the stainless steel will be surfacing on the inner wall of nuclear pressure vessel to prevent corrosion, long-term operation may cause aging or deterioration of stainless steel, resulting in corrosion caused by the contact between the primary circuit water environment and the nuclear pressure vessel steel.
Therefore, the corrosion behavior of nuclear pressure vessels materials is also summarized in detail.
Meanwhile, the evolution mechanism of the microstructure of nuclear pressure vessel materials under thermal aging conditions is analyzed, and the mechanisms affecting the mechanical properties are also described.
In addition, the influence mechanisms of internal and external factors on the fatigue properties, fatigue crack initiation and fatigue crack propagation of nuclear pressure vessel steel are analyzed in detail from different perspectives.
Finally, the development direction and further research contents of nuclear pressure vessel materials are prospected in order to improve the service life and ensure safe service in harsh environment.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various degrees of cyclic fatigue on torsional failure and torsional preloading on the cyclic fatigue life of heat-treated K3XF nickel-titanium (NiTi) instruments (SybronEndo, Orange, CA).
The mean number of cycles until failure (Nf) of K3XF and K3 NiTi instruments was examined in a 3-point bending apparatus with a 7-mm radius and 45° curve.
Torque and distortion angles at failure of new instruments and instruments stressed to 25%, 50%, and 75% of the Nf were measured according to ISO 3630-1.
Other new files were preloaded at 25%, 50%, and 75% of the mean distortion angles before the fatigue test.
After torsional preloading, the Nf was examined.
The fracture surface of each fragment was examined with a scanning electron microscope.
The fatigue resistance of K3XF instruments was 2 times higher than that of K3 instruments (P < .05).
The torque and angle of rotation at fracture of K3XF instruments were similar to those of K3 instruments.
The 25%, 50%, and 75% torsional preloading significantly lowered the Nf of both K3 and K3XF instruments (P < .05).
In the fatigue prestressed groups, K3 instruments with 75% preloading had significantly lower torque and distortion angles than unused K3 instruments (P < .05).
The fractographic patterns corresponded to the pattern defined by the last stage test.
A low amount of torsional preloading reduced the fatigue resistance of K3 and K3XF instruments.
A high amount of precycling fatigue significantly reduced the torsional resistance of K3 instruments.
The torsional resistance of K3XF instruments was less affected by previous load cycling even after extensive precycling.
Solid-state lithium metal batteries (SSBs) are promising for electric vehicles because of their potential to provide high energy density and enhanced safety.
However, these batteries face short-circuit challenges caused by uncontrolled lithium dendrite growth during cycling.
Using operando scanning electron microscopy and phase-field simulations, we determined that failure of SSBs is closely linked to the fatigue of the lithium metal anode, which markedly contributes to interface degradation and dendrite growth in SSBs.
This fatigue follows the Coffin-Manson equation in mechanics, indicating that it is an innate characteristic.
Clarifying the essential role of fatigue provides a physical basis for understanding failures of SSBs and paves the way to extending their lifespan.
Higher yttria content enhances the translucency and appearance of dental zirconia materials.
Alterations in material composition also affect mechanical properties.
The aim of this study was to compare the fracture load after artificial short-term aging of monolithic, full-contour zirconia crowns with different amounts of yttria-stabilization.
Sixty crowns (thirty super high translucent crowns (5Y-Z) and thirty high translucent crowns (3Y-Z)) were produced to fit a model of a premolar with a shallow chamfer preparation.
The crowns were cemented with self-adhesive resin cement on composite abutments.
For each zirconia type, three groups of crowns (n = 10) were allocated to: (i) cyclic loading (200 N, 1 Hz, 30,000 cycles), (ii) hydrothermal aging (3 × 20 min, 134°C 3.2 bar), or (iii) no treatment (control).
Surviving crowns from the aging process were quasistatically loaded until fracture.
The 3Y-Z crowns had statistically significantly higher fracture values (3,449 N) than the 5Y-Z crowns (1,938 N).
The aging procedures did not affect load at fracture.
Fractographic analysis showed that fractures started either at the crown margin or at the occlusal intaglio area.
Higher yttria content leads to a reduction in material strength and damage tolerance, and this should be reflected in recommendations for clinical use.
In this study, the axial fatigue behaviour of hot forging tool steels at room temperature was investigated.
Fatigue tests were performed on two steels within the same H13 specification.
The fatigue tests were carried out in the high-cycle fatigue domain under normal conditions.
These tests were also performed on specimens in contact with a corrosive medium, applying stress values that led to the high-cycle fatigue domain under normal conditions for the sake of comparison.
Both materials showed similar fatigue strengths when they were tested under normal conditions.
In contrast, corrosion fatigue lives were much lower than in normal tests and differed significantly between the two steels.
Crack initiation was triggered by microstructural and surface defects in the normal tests, whereas the formation of corrosion pits caused crack initiation in the corrosion fatigue tests.
Moreover, a fracture surface analysis revealed dissimilar crack propagation areas between both steels, which suggested that both steels had different fracture toughness.
These results were in line with the differences observed between the carbide and grain sizes of both of the material microstructures.
Bone is an anisotropic structure which can be compared to a composite material. Discontinuities within its microstructure may provide stress concentration sites for crack initiation, but act as a barrier to its propagation.
This study looks specifically at the relationship between crack length and propagation in compact bone.
Beam-shaped bone samples from sheep radii were prepared and stained with fluorochrome dyes and tested in cyclic fatigue under four-point bending in an INSTRON 1341 servo-hydraulic fatigue-testing machine.
Samples were tested at a frequency of 30 Hz and stress range of 100 MPa under load control.
Specimens were sectioned transversely using a diamond saw, slides prepared and examined using epifluorescence microscopy.
Cracks in transverse sections were classified in terms of their location relative to cement lines surrounding secondary osteons.
Mean crack length, crack numerical density and crack surface density were examined.
Short microcracks (100 microm or less) were stopped at the cement lines surrounding osteons, microcracks of intermediate length (100-300 microm) were deflected as they hit the cement line, and microcracks that were able to penetrate through cement lines were longer (> 400 microm).
These data show that bone microstructure allows the initiation of microcracks but acts as a barrier to crack propagation.
Conductive hydrogels show extensive applications in flexible electronics and biomedical areas, but it is a challenge to simultaneously achieve high mechanical properties, satisfied electrical conductivity, good biocompatibility, self-recovery and anti-freezing properties through a simple preparation method.
Herein, chitin nanocrystals (ChNCs) were employed to encapsulate liquid metal nanoparticles (LMNPs) to ensure the dispersion stability of LMNPs in a hydrogel system composed of polyacrylamide (PAM) and polyvinyl alcohol (PVA).
The synergistic effect of ChNCs-stabilized LMNPs imparts remarkable conductivity to the hydrogel, making it an effective strain sensor for human motion.
With 1 % LMNPs, the composite hydrogel stretches up to 2100 %, showing excellent stretchability.
Under 10 cycles of 200 % strain, hysteresis loop curves overlap, indicating outstanding fatigue resistance.
The hydrogel exhibits remarkable self-recovery, enduring 1400 % deformation without rupture.
In addition, its effective antifreeze properties result from immersion in a glycerol-water solvent.
Even at -20 °C and 60 °C, the hydrogel maintains stable, reproducible resistance changes at 150 % tensile strain.
Therefore, the high-performance conductive hydrogel containing ChNCs stabilized LM has promising applications in flexible wearable sensing devices.
Small-sized metals generally exhibit unusual deformation responses subjected to cyclic loading, since their limited volume cannot effectively accommodate micro-sized dislocation patterns typically found in their bulk counterparts.
Here, the cyclic behaviors in Cu nanopillars with different configurations are investigated using in situ transmission electron microscopy fatigue test.
Dislocation tangles formed in single- and twinned-crystal nanopillars as a result of cycling-induced operations of multiple slip systems and further unpinning and absorption of pinned dislocations.
While, nanopillars configured with low-angle grain boundary (LAGB) underwent the degradation and eventual decomposition of the LAGB due to the cycling-induced emission of grain boundary dislocations, which resulted in high-density mobile dislocations to withstand the cyclic loading.
These findings contribute to a systematic and comprehensive understanding of the micro-mechanics of dislocation-related phenomena in the cyclic response of nanoscale metals.
Bulk-metallic glasses (BMGs) are now candidate materials for structural applications due to their exceptional strength and toughness.
However, their fatigue resistance can be poor and inconsistent, severely limiting their potential as reliable structural materials.
As fatigue limits are invariably governed by the local arrest of microscopically small cracks at microstructural features, the lack of microstructure in monolithic glasses, often coupled with other factors, such as the ease of crack formation in shear bands or a high susceptibility to corrosion, can lead to low fatigue limits (some ~1/20 of their tensile strengths) and highly variable fatigue lives.
BMG-matrix composites can provide a solution here as their duplex microstructures can arrest shear bands at a second phase to prevent cracks from exceeding critical size; under these conditions, fatigue limits become comparable with those of crystalline alloys.
Here, we report on a Pd-based glass that similarly has high fatigue resistance but without a second phase.
This monolithic glass displays high intrinsic toughness from extensive shear-band proliferation with cavitation and cracking effectively obstructed.
We find that this property can further promote fatigue resistance through extrinsic crack-tip shielding, a mechanism well known in crystalline metals but not previously reported in BMGs, whereby cyclically loaded cracks propagate in a highly "zig-zag" manner, creating a rough "staircase-like" profile.
The resulting crack-surface contact (roughness-induced crack closure) elevates fatigue properties to those comparable to crystalline alloys, and the accompanying plasticity helps to reduce flaw sensitivity in the glass, thereby promoting structural reliability.
A pulse-echo ultrasonic method is presented to measure elastic parameter variations during thermal loading with high accuracy.
Using a dry coupling configuration dedicated to high temperature investigation, this technique has been applied on 6061-T6 aluminium samples up to 220 degrees C.
Experimental settings are described to assess the measurement reproducibility estimated at a value of 0.2%.
Consequently, the anisotropy of this aluminium between the rolling direction and two orthogonal axes has been clearly detected and also measured versus temperature.
As regards the temperature dependence of these elastic parameters, these results are compared with the estimations of the Young's modulus obtained during mechanical tests in conditions of low cycle fatigue (LCF).
The same linear variation versus temperature is found but with a shift of 7GPa.
This difference has been classically attributed to systematic experimental error sources and to the distinction existing between dynamic and static elastic modulus.
In the interests of more flexible and less stiff bridge constructs to stimulate bone healing, the technique of far cortical locking has been designed to improve locked plating constructs in terms of stress concentration, stress shielding, and inhibition of issues around fracture healing.
However, far cortical locking screws currently lack objective designs and anti-fatigue designs.
This study investigates an optimization algorithm to form a special locking screw composed of various metals, which can theoretically achieve the maintenance of the excellent mechanical properties of far cortical locking constructs in terms of fracture internal fixation, while maintaining the biomechanical safety and fatigue resistance of the structure.
The numerical results of our study indicate that the maximum von Mises stress of the optimized construct is less than the allowable stress of the material under each working condition while still achieving sufficient parallel interfragmentary motion.
Numerical analysis of high cycle fatigue indicates that the optimized construct increases the safety factor to five.
A high cycle fatigue test and defect analysis indicates that the sandwich locking constructs have better fatigue resistance.
We conclude that the sandwich locking construct theoretically maintains its biomechanical safety and fatigue resistance while also maintaining excellent mechanical properties for fracture internal fixation.
This study investigates the fatigue bending strength, measured as the Mean of Fatigue Cycles (N), of cylindrical components produced by external wire arc additive manufacturing (WAAM) through a Taguchi L25 orthogonal array and linear regression analysis.
Five welding parameters-welding current (Ampe), offset distance (mm), step length (mm), welding speed (mm/min), and specimen gauge diameter (mm)-were evaluated to maximize N using signal-to-noise (S/N) ratios.
Nominal bending stresses (σ) ranged from 45 to 54 MPa, ANOVA on raw replicate data (25 runs, 3 replicates) confirmed specimen gauge diameter = 17 mm and weld current = 125 A as dominant, with F = 171.62 (
To control and minimize wear of metal-on-metal hip joints it is essential to understand the mechanisms of debris generation.
In vivo, mainly nanosize globular and needle-shaped particles are found.
These can neither stem from the action of abrasion nor from tribochemical reactions.
In this study the acting wear mechanisms have been first identified on the surface by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Afterwards, the microstructures of the subsurface regions of explants have been investigated using a transmission electron microscope (TEM).
Observation of the subsurface gave additional insight about the microstructural changes of cobalt-base alloys subjected to wear.
At some distance from the surface, a network of stacking faults and hexagonal epsilon-martensite was found strengthening the bulk material. This microstructure changed into a nanocrystalline type moving closer towards the surface.
A comparison of in vivo debris size and grain size of the surface suggests that the globular wear particles result from torn off nanocrystals, while the needle shaped particles are generated by fractured epsilon-martensite.
Identified cracks, propagating through the nanocrystalline layer, further support these findings.
Thus, it is suggested that the dominating mechanism of particle generation for metal-on-metal joints is surface fatigue within a nanocrystalline surface layer.
Cyclic creep, or ratcheting, is a severe form of fatigue deformation caused by cumulative unidirectional plastic strain under asymmetrical stress cycling with a nonzero mean stress.
It often causes premature failure of structural materials, and enhancing ratcheting resistance is a challenge in materials engineering.
We demonstrate superior ratcheting resistance in high-strength austenitic stainless steel with a gradient hierarchy of dislocation cells.
The ratcheting rate is two to four orders of magnitude lower than for coarse-grained counterparts.
Its resistance results from sustained microstructural refinement through deformation-induced coherent martensitic transformations to hexagonal close-packed nanolayers within stable dislocation cells.
The progressively refined microstructure mitigates cyclic softening and suppresses strain localization during stress cycling, thus reducing ratcheting strain.
The gradient dislocation architecture represents a promising design for high-strength, ratcheting-resistant materials.
To evaluate two NiTi wires with different carbon and oxygen contents in terms of mechanical resistance to rotary bending fatigue (RBF) under varied parameters of strain amplitude and rotational speed.
The wires produced from two vacuum induction melting (VIM) processed NiTi ingots were tested, Ti-49.81 at%Ni and Ti-50.33 at%Ni, named VIM 1 and VIM 2.
A brief analysis related to wire fabrication is also presented, as well as chemical and microstructural analysis by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and optical microscope, respectively.
A computer controlled RBF machine was specially constructed for the tests.
Three radii of curvature were used: 50.0, 62.5 and 75.0 mm, respectively, R(1), R(2) and R(3), resulting in three strain amplitudes ε(a) : 1.00%, 0.80% and 0.67%.
The selected rotational speeds were 250 and 455 rpm.
The VIM 1 wire had a high carbon content of 0.188 wt% and a low oxygen content of 0.036 wt%.
The oxygen and carbon contents of wire VIM 2 did not exceed their maximum, of 0.070 and 0.050 wt%, according to ASTM standard (ASTM F-2063-00 2001).
The wire with lower carbon content performed better when compared to the one with higher carbon content, withstanding 29,441 and 12,895 cycles, respectively, to fracture.
The surface quality of the wire was associated with resistance to cyclic fatigue.
Surface defects acted as stress concentrators points.
Overall, the number of cycles to failure was higher for VIM 2 wires with lower carbon content.
The oxidation-resistant coating of aeronautic engines must withstand severe thermal fluctuations that can degrade performance over time.
Conventional thermal shock and fatigue tests using external heaters suffer from high thermal inertia, complex setups, and poor adaptability at elevated temperatures.
To address these challenges, we developed a thermal resistance tester based on ultra-high temperature rapid direct resistance heating.
This method enables fast and precise temperature control without the need for external heaters, significantly improving system responsiveness and reliability.
The apparatus covers a wide temperature range (500 °C to > 3000 °C), with temperature accuracy of ± 5 °C and weighing precision of ± 0.1 mg.
It is suitable for evaluating oxidation-resistant coatings and metallic materials with symmetric structures, such as those fabricated via 3D-printed topology optimization.
The tester's performance has been validated through systematic thermal cycling experiments.
In addition to coating research, the system shows strong potential in the thermal testing of optical materials and components, particularly in high-power laser and space applications, where material stability under rapid temperature variation is critical.
The eutectic cast Al-Si alloys with excellent high-temperature and casting performance are widely used in engine pistons.
During frequent starts and stops, the thermo-mechanical fatigue (TMF) is the most important failure cause.
Ultrasonic melt treatment (UT) was chosen to compare and investigate the influence of micro-structures on fatigue life and damage mechanisms of as-cast (AC) eutectic Al-Si alloys under TMF loading.
After UT, the grain size, primary Si, and intermetallic particles are reduced significantly in the alloy; fatigue life increases obviously.
As a result of pilling-up of dislocations, the competitive effects of the critical strain/stress for fatigue crack nucleation can be found.
There are two different crack initiation mechanisms under TMF: one is primary Si fracture for AC alloys with limited critical strain/stress for fatigue crack nucleation at fractured Si particles, and the other is primary Si debonding for UT alloys with increasing critical fracture strain/stress.
After the crack initiation, the fractured or debonded primary phases provide the advantages for the further development of main cracks for both alloys.
The UT alloy (805 ± 253 cycles) has about twice the TMF life of the AC alloy (403 ± 98 cycles).
The refinement of micro-structures is instrumental in improving the fatigue resistance and life of TMF for the UT alloy.
The torsional friction behavior of the materials (CoCrMo alloy and ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE)) that are used in artificial knee joint replacement (AKJR) were investigated under dynamic loading.
The torsional friction torque, wear loss and scars and stress distribution were analyzed and compared.
The results show the following: (1) the friction torque declines rapidly at the beginning of the experiments, and meanwhile, the maximum normal load and the torsional angle amplitude show very little effect on the steady value; (2) the wear loss decreases with the increased torsional angle amplitude but increases with the increased maximum normal load; additionally, as the cycle times increase, the wear rate decreases, and the wear is minimal; (3) unloading and secondary loading significantly reduce the friction and wear of the materials, and thus, patients should rest after prolonged exercise to reduce wear; (4) the margins of UHMWPE and CoCrMo are worn, and the wear mechanism is abrasive wear; (5) around the center of the UHMWPE, the surface is peeled off, and the wear mechanism is fatigue wear; and (6) in terms of the compressive stress and shear stress, the calculated results from a finite element model match the experimental results well.
Ferroelectric oxides, such as Pb(Zr,Ti)O(3), are useful for electronic and photonic devices because of their ability to retain two stable polarization states, which can form the basis for memory and logic circuitry.
Requirements for long-term operation of practical devices such as non-volatile RAM (random access memory) include consistent polarization switching over many (more than 10(12)) cycles of the applied electric field, which represents a major challenge.
As switching is largely controlled by the motion and pinning of domain walls, it is necessary to develop suitable tools that can directly probe the ferroelectric domain structures in operating devices-thin-film structures with electrical contacts.
A recently developed synchrotron X-ray microdiffraction technique complements existing microscopic probes, and allows us to visualize directly the evolution of polarization domains in ferroelectric devices, through metal or oxide electrodes, and with submicrometre spatial resolution.
The images reveal two regimes of fatigue, depending on the magnitude of the electric field pulses driving the device: a low-field regime in which fatigue can be reversed with higher electric field pulses, and a regime at very high electric fields in which there is a non-reversible crystallographic relaxation of the epitaxial ferroelectric film.
Steels are heavily used in infrastructure and the transportation industry, and enhancing their fatigue resistance is a major challenge in materials engineering.
In this study, by introducing a gradient microstructure into 304 austenitic steel, which is one of the most widely used types of stainless steel, we show that a strength gradient substantially enhances the fatigue life of the material. Pre-notched samples with negative strength gradients in front of the notch's tip endure many more fatigue cycles than do samples with positive strength gradients during the crack initiation stage, and samples with either type of gradient perform better than do gradient-free samples with the same average yield strength.
However, as a crack grows, samples with positive strength gradients exhibit better resistance to fatigue crack propagation than do samples with negative gradients or no gradient.
This study demonstrates a simple and promising strategy for using gradient structures to enhance the fatigue resistance of materials and complements related studies of strength and ductility.
Effective braking in high-speed trains is one of the major bottlenecks in expediting the technology and possibilities to improve speed.
Although substantial progress has been made to increase operating speed, perhaps, thermal fatigue cracking in brake discs is a primary constraint so far.
Thermal fatigue cracking is the major cause of brake disc failure in high-speed trains, especially trains with a speed of 350 km/h or above.
In this study, new material composition is proposed for brake discs of high-speed trains.
A comprehensive investigation is presented based on fatigue crack initiation and propagation, along with wear and micro-hardness characterization.
Thermal fatigue tests at various thermal cycles between 20 ℃ and 700 ℃ were performed and the experimental results are compared with fatigue properties of a commercial brake disc material. An experimental trial revealed that thermal cracks normally initiate and propagate along the oxidized grain boundaries; nevertheless, crack propagation is restricted by the fine precipitates and lath structure of martensitic.
Moreover, crack length at the initiation and propagation stage is predicted through crack growth rate and favorable grain size in the crack vicinity.
Thermal fatigue life can be improved by dictating the microstructure and precipitate morphology of cast steel by tailoring the alloying composition.
Heat-affected zones (HAZs) in real welds are usually quite narrow, and consequently most standard mechanical tests are difficult or even impossible.
Therefore, simulated microstructures are often used for mechanical tests.
However, the most often used weld thermal cycle simulator produces only a few millimeters wide area of simulated microstructure in the middle of specimens.
Consequently, these kind of simulated specimen are not suitable for standard tensile tests, and even for Charpy impact tests, the simulated area can be too narrow.
Therefore, to investigate the mechanical properties of a fine-grain heat-affected zone in 18CrNiMo7-6 steel, two methods were used for simulation of as-welded microstructures: (a) a weld thermal cycle simulator, and (b) as an alternative, though not yet verified option, austenitizing in a laboratory furnace + water quenching.
The microstructures were compared and mechanical properties investigated.
The grain sizes of the simulated specimens were 10.9 μm (water-quenched) and 12.6 μm (simulator), whereby the deviations from the real weld were less than 10%.
Both types of simulated specimen were used for hardness measurement, Charpy impact tests, and fatigue tests.
Water-quenched specimens were large enough to enable standard tensile testing.
A hardness of 425 HV, yield strength
Porous coated Ti-6Al-4V alloy implant systems provide a biocompatible interface between implant and bone, resulting in firm fixation and potential long-term retention via bony ingrowth.
In order to achieve an acceptable porous coating structure, the sintering protocol for Ti-6Al-4V alloy systems often requires that the material be heat treated above the beta transus.
This transforms the as-received equiaxed microstructure, recommended for surgical implants, to a lamellar alpha-beta distribution, which has been shown to have the worst fatigue properties of the most common structures attainable in Ti-6Al-4V alloy.
However, post-sintering heat treatments may be used to improve these properties by producing microstructures more resistant to crack initiation and propagation.
This study investigated the influence of microstructural variations on the fatigue properties of porous coated Ti-6Al-4V alloy material. Nonporous coated and porous coated Ti-6Al-4V alloy fatigue specimens were subjected to a standard sintering heat treatment to produce a lamellar microstructure.
In addition, two post-sintering heat treatments were used to produce coarse and fine acicular microstructures.
Rotating beam (reversed bending) fatigue testing was performed and the endurance limits determined for the noncoated and porous coated microstructures.
The values determined were 668 MPa (noncoated as-received equiaxed), 394 MPa (noncoated lamellar), 488 MPa (non-coated coarse acicular), 494 MPa (noncoated fine acicular), 140 MPa (porous coated lamellar), 161 MPa (porous coated coarse acicular), and 162 MPa (porous coated fine acicular).
The noncoated coarse and fine acicular specimens displayed an approximate 25% increase over the noncoated lamellar specimens.
The porous coated coarse and fine acicular specimens showed an approximate 15% improvement over the porous coated lamellar specimens.
Ni-base superalloys operate in harsh service conditions where cyclic heating and cooling introduce deformation fields that need to be investigated in detail.
We used the high-angular-resolution electron backscatter diffraction method to study the evolution of internal stress fields and dislocation density distributions in carbides, dendrites, and notch tips.
The results indicate that the stress concentrations decay exponentially away from the notch, and this pattern of distribution was modified by the growth of cracks and the emission of dislocations from the crack tip.
Crack initiation follows crystallographic traces and is weakly correlated with carbides and dendrites.
Thermal cycles introduce local plasticity around carbides, the dendrite boundary, and cracks.
The dislocations lead to higher local stored energy than the critical value that is often cited to induce recrystallization.
No large-scale onset of recrystallization was detected, possibly due to the mild temperature (800 °C); however, numerous recrystallized grains were detected in carbides after 50 and 80 cycles.
The results call for a detailed investigation of the microstructure-related, thermally assisted recrystallization phenomenon and may assist in the microstructure control and cooling channel design of turbine blades.
Metallic porous biomaterials are recently attracting more attention thanks to the additive manufacturing techniques which help produce more complex structures as compared to conventional techniques.
On the other hand, bio-functional surfaces on metallic biomaterials such as titanium and its alloys are necessary to enhance the biological interactions with the host tissue.
This study discusses the effect of plasma electrolytic oxidation (PEO), as a surface modification technique to produce bio-functional layers, on the mechanical properties of additively manufactured Ti6Al4V scaffolds based on the cubic unit cell.
For this purpose, the PEO process with two different oxidation times was applied on scaffolds with four different values of relative density.
The effects of the PEO process were studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), optical microscopy as well as static and dynamic (fatigue) mechanical testing under compression.
SEM results indicated pore formation on the surface of the scaffolds after oxidation with a thickness of 4.85±0.36μm of the oxide layer after 2min and 9.04±2.27μm after 5min oxidation (based on optical images).
The static test results showed the high effect of relative density of porous structure on its mechanical properties.
However, oxidation did not influence most of the mechanical properties such as maximum stress, yield stress, plateau stress, and energy absorption, although its effect on the elastic modulus was considerable.
Under fatigue loading, none of the scaffolds failed even after 10
Radiographic follow-up studies of cemented total hip arthroplasty have shown that failure of the cement-metal interface of the femoral component is as high as 25% at 10 years.
Recent analyses of clinically successful cemented femoral components obtained in toto with the surrounding cement and femurs after many years of in-vivo service have suggested that the mechanism of the initiation of failure of fixation of cemented femoral components is debonding at the cement-metal interface.
Since this critical interface is subjected primarily to cyclic loading, the evaluation of different surface preparations should be studied in fatigue, not static testing.
In the current study, several contemporary methods for increasing the strength of the cement-metal interface were evaluated by testing the interfacial fatigue pushout strength under varying conditions of cyclic loading.
The effect of a smooth 'implant finish' surface, a surface coated with polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA precoated surface), a combination of a textured surface with PMMA precoat, and a porous titanium mesh coated surface were examined.
Precoating the metal with a thin film of PMMA significantly increased the number of compressive fatigue loading cycles required for failure of the cement-metal interface under cyclic loading compared to a smooth, uncoated surface.
Adding indentations to the surface and then precoating with PMMA further significantly increased the fatigue life of the cement-metal interface.
The strongest interface in fatigue was the titanium fibermesh-cement interface.
This study systematically investigates the synergistic effects of the pre-stretching deformation and aging temperature on the precipitation behavior and mechanical properties of an Al-Cu-Li alloy.
The results indicate that increasing the pre-stretching deformation significantly refines and increases the number density of
Titanium implantable vertebral augmentation device (TIVAD) are regarded as having potential in the treatment of vertebral compression fractures (VCFs).
However, improper design in current TIVADs results in the inability to effectively restore VCF height and maintain stability.
There is still an unmet clinical need for improvement.
The authors tested a newly developed a TIVAD (Tri-blade fixed system) that can provide enough endplate collapse support to restore the vertebral body height in a safe retraction mechanism for VCFs using minimally invasive surgery (MIS).
The performed biomechanical tests included blade expansion force, lifetime of cement embedded and vertebral height restoration efficiency of porcine osteoporosis VCFs for its feasibility.
A cylinder with 3 surface cuts that form blades that can be expanded into a conical space was designed (Tri-blade fixed system).
The 3 blades can be expanded outward with angles between blades as 105°/ 105°/150° for lower left/lower right/upper arms, respectively that reach 15mm in height and 14.8 mm in width.
A frame was specifically designed to measure the contact force using force sensing resistors during blade expansion.
The Tri-blade fixed system was embedded into a cement block to perform fatigue testing under 2000N pressure (5*10 The average maximum contact force for the top, bottom left and right blades were 299.0N, 283.5N and 279.3N, respectively with uniformly outward expansion forces.
The fatigue test found that there were no obvious cracks or damage to the cement block.
The porcine osteoporosis vertebral body at the anterior, middle, and posterior heights can be restored to 21.9%, 12.6% and 6.4%, respectively.
This study developed a novel TIVAD with conical shape that can provide a more stable structure with sufficient/uniform expansion force, passing the fatigue test with bone cement and high effective in vertebral height restoration tests for porcine osteoporosis VCFs.
The new 3D Tri-blade TIVAD may offer a new treatment option for VCFs.
Dental nickel-titanium (NiTi) rotary instruments are widely used in endodontic therapy because they are efficient with a higher success rate.
However, an unpredictable fracture of instruments may happen due to the surface characteristics of imperfection (or irregularity).
This study assessed whether a novel surface treatment could increase fatigue fracture resistance of dental NiTi rotary instruments.
A 200- or 500-nm thick Ti-zirconium-boron (Ti-Zr-B) thin film metallic glass was deposited on ProTaper Universal F2 files using a physical vapor deposition process.
The characteristics of coating were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and X-ray diffractometry.
In cyclic fatigue tests, the files were performed in a simulated root canal (radius=5 mm, angulation=60°) under a rotating speed of 300rpm.
The fatigue fractured cross sections of the files were analyzed with their fractographic performances through scanning electron microscopy images.
The amorphous structure of the Ti-Zr-B coating was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy and X-ray diffractometry.
The surface of treated files presented smooth morphologies without grinding irregularity.
For the 200- and 500-nm surface treatment groups, the coated files exhibited higher resistance of cyclic fatigue than untreated files.
In fractographic analysis, treated files showed significantly larger crack-initiation zone; however, no significant differences in the areas of fatigue propagation and catastrophic fracture were found compared to untreated files.
The novel surface treatment of Ti-Zr-B thin film metallic glass on dental NiTi rotary files can effectively improve the fatigue fracture resistance by offering a smooth coated surface with amorphous microstructure.
Resin bonding can be compared to making a sandwich with the tooth on one side and the restoration on the other, a layer of bonding resin is applied to either side and a filled resin (composite) placed in between.
This presentation considers factors that influence the restoration side of the sandwich and various ways that the assembled testpieces may be "aged" prior to testing.
The materials to be bonded may be either ceramic, metal or composite formed by methods such as casting, pressing, sintering or machining.
The fabrication method determines the susceptibility of the bonding surface to physical or chemical modification.
The treatment of the surface prior to bonding can be physical (e.g. sandblasting) or chemical (e.g. metal primer); but is more likely to be a combination (e.g. silica deposition+silane).
Successful bonding depends on establishing a surface with a high population of unreacted vinyl groups (-CC) that can then be cross-polymerized to the resin in the bonding composite.
The physical approach has involved etching or sandblasting the surfaces; but the ability to form a microretentive surface in this way depends on a heterogeneous surface.
Noble metals and modern high strength ceramics have a more homogeneous surface and are not easily etched.
To overcome this problem a number of ways to deposit a silica layer on the bonding surface have been developed: the Silicoater that involves baking on a silica layer, the Rocatec technique (CoJet) that involves air blasting silica onto the surface in conjunction with an abrasive; and two more modern approaches: sol-gel evaporation and molecular vapor deposition (MVD).
All these techniques require the subsequent application of a silane layer to provide the -CC moieties.
The use of primers without an intervening silica layer has been tested and found to be successful with some specialized bonding systems that contain agents such as methacryloyloxydecyldihydrogen-phosphate (MDP) (PanaviaEX).
AGING OF TESTPIECES PRIOR TO BONDING: The most common type of aging is storage in water at temperatures from ambient to 100 degrees Celsius.
This generally decreases bond strengths; but not to catastrophic values.
A more exacting pre-test regime is thermal cycling.
In some studies this caused a slightly greater reduction in bond strength than storage in water; but in other tests it resulted in total failure.
As some testpieces have spontaneously debonded during thermal cycling, it seems sensible to include TC in any screening test of new materials.
Mechanical cycling (fatigue) prior to testing has a very significant effect and the bond strength that can withstand 1,000,000 cycles can be one sixth of the bond strength in a simple monotonic test (tensile, shear or compression).
Whereas simple monotonic tests provide a blunt instrument for eliminating poorly performing techniques their use for discriminating between established techniques is open to discussion.
Fatigue failures create enormous risks for all engineered structures, as well as for human lives, motivating large safety factors in design and, thus, inefficient use of resources.
Inspired by the excellent fracture toughness of bone, we explored the fatigue resistance in metastability-assisted multiphase steels.
We show here that when steel microstructures are hierarchical and laminated, similar to the substructure of bone, superior crack resistance can be realized.
Our results reveal that tuning the interface structure, distribution, and phase stability to simultaneously activate multiple micromechanisms that resist crack propagation is key for the observed leap in mechanical response.
The exceptional properties enabled by this strategy provide guidance for all fatigue-resistant alloy design efforts.
Osteonal bone is often compared to a composite material and to metals as discontinuities within the material may provide sites of stress concentration for crack initiation and serve as barriers to crack growth.
However, little experimental data exist to back up these hypotheses.
Fluorescent chelating agents were applied at specific intervals to bone specimens fatigue tested in cyclic compression at a stress range of 80 MPa. The failed specimens were sectioned and labelled microcracks identified using UV epifluorescence microscopy.
Microcrack lengths were measured and their relationship to cement lines surrounding secondary osteons recorded.
Microcrack length at the time of encountering a cement line was also measured.
Microcracks of less than 100mum stopped growing when they encountered a cement line.
Microcracks of greater than 100mum in length continued to grow after encountering a cement line surrounding an osteon.
Only microcracks greater than 300mum in length were capable of penetrating osteons and these microcracks were the only ones which were observed to cause failure in the specimen.
These experimental data support the hypothesis that secondary osteons act as barriers to crack propagation in compact bone.
However, it shows that this microstructural barrier effect is dependent on the crack length at the time of encountering an osteon.
For the vast majority of cracks, osteons act as barriers to growth but for the minority of cracks that are long enough and do break through the cement line, an osteon may actually act as a weakness in the bone and facilitate crack propagation.
2D transition metal carbides and nitrides (MXenes) have gained extensive attention recently due to their versatile surface chemistry, layered structure, and intriguing properties.
The assembly of MXene sheets into macroscopic architectures is an important approach to harness their extraordinary properties.
However, it is difficult to construct a freestanding, mechanically flexible, and 3D framework of MXene sheets owing to their weak intersheet interactions.
Herein, an interfacial enhancement strategy to construct multifunctional, superelastic, and lightweight 3D MXene architectures by bridging individual MXene sheets with polyimide macromolecules is developed.
The resulting lightweight aerogel exhibits superelasticity with large reversible compressibility, excellent fatigue resistance (1000 cycles at 50% strain), 20% reversible stretchability, and high electrical conductivity of ≈4.0 S m
Lightweight open-cell foams that are simultaneously superelastic, possess exceptionally high Young's moduli (Y), exhibit ultrahigh efficiency, and resist fatigue as well as creep are particularly desirable as structural frameworks.
Unfortunately, many of these features are orthogonal in foams of metals, ceramics, and polymers, particularly under large temperature variations.
In contrast, foams of carbon allotropes including carbon nanotubes and graphene developed over the past few years exhibit these desired properties but have low Y due to low density, ρ = 0.5-10 mg/mL.
Densification of these foams enhances Y although below expectation and also dramatically degrades other properties because of drastic changes in microstructure.
We have recently developed size- and shape-tunable graphene-coated single-walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT) aerogels that display superelasticity at least up to a compressive strain (ε) = 80%, fatigue and creep resistance, and ultrahigh efficiency over -100-500 °C.
Unfortunately, Y of these aerogels is only ∼0.75 MPa due to low ρ ≈ 14 mg/mL, limiting their competitiveness as structural foams.
We report fabrication of similar aerogels but with ρ spanning more than an order of magnitude from 16-400 mg/mL through controlled isostatic compression in the presence of a polymer coating circumventing any microstructural changes in stark contrast to other foams of carbon allotropes.
The compressive stress (σ) versus ε measurements show that the densification of aerogels from ρ ≈ 16 to 400 mg/mL dramatically enhances Y from 0.9 to 400 MPa while maintaining superelasticity at least up to ε = 10% even at the highest ρ.
The storage (E') and loss (E″) moduli measured in the linear regime show ultralow loss coefficient, tan δ = E″/E' ≈ 0.02, that remains constant over three decades of frequencies (0.628-628 rad/s), suggesting unusually high frequency-invariant efficiency.
Furthermore, these aerogels retain exceptional fatigue resistance for 10
To examine the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) behaviour of NiTi rotary endodontic instruments in aqueous sodium hypochlorite solution.
Four brands of NiTi rotary instrument (n=179) were subjected to a rotational-bending fatigue test at a rate of 250rpm until fracture, the instrument being immersed in 1.2% sodium hypochlorite solution.
The surface strain amplitude, calculated from the curvature (from a pre-test photograph) and diameter of the fracture cross-section (from SEM photomicrograph) was plotted against the total number of revolutions to failure.
An apparent fatigue-ductility exponent was determined from a regression line fitted to the LCF lives for each brand of instrument.
All detached fragments were examined fractographically for crack initiation and the extent of crack extension into the cross-section.
The values were compared using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) or chi2, where appropriate, at alpha=0.05.
A linear strain-life relationship was obtained for all groups; the apparent fatigue-ductility exponent was similar between various brands (ANOVA, P>0.05), but not for the number of crack origins (chi2, P<0.05).
There was an inverse, linear relationship between the square root of the extension of the fatigue-crack and the strain amplitude.
NiTi rotary instruments fatigued in hypochlorite shows a strain-life relationship with low-cycle and high-cycle fatigue regions.
The LCF behaviour is not affected by the cross-sectional shape of the instrument.
There appears to be a critical extent of crack propagation for various surface strain amplitudes leading to final, catastrophic fracture of the instrument.
Two modular hip implants with a cobalt-alloy head and a cobalt-alloy stem were retrieved after a fracture had occurred in the neck region of the femoral component, eighty-five and seventy months after implantation.
Both implants failed less than one millimeter distal to the taper junction between the head and the stem (outside of the taper).
The fracture surfaces of the implant were investigated with the use of scanning electron microscopy, to determine the nature of the failure process.
The fractures occurred at the grain boundaries of the microstructure and appeared to be the result of three factors: porosity at the grain boundaries; intergranular corrosive attack, initiated both at the head-neck taper and at the free surface; and cyclic fatigue-loading of the stem.
The corrosive attack of the free surface was initiated, in part, by the egression of surface grains and by the ingression of fluid into the intergranular regions.
Sectioned surfaces showed extensive intergranular corrosive attack in the prosthetic neck localized in the region of the head-neck taper junction and penetrating deeply into the microstructure.
The exponential growth of smart electronics has intensified demand for next-generation wearable sensors, yet achieving optimal flexibility, durability, and biocompatibility remains challenging.
This study introduces a dual-network hydrogel (CMC-PAM-LM) developed through the synergistic integration of carboxymethyl cellulose sodium (CMC), polyacrylamide (PAM), and liquid metal (LM).
The hydrogel incorporates two distinct crosslinking mechanisms: dynamic coordination between Ga
Effect of microstructure on the crack initiation and early propagation mechanism in the very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) regime was studied in 316L stainless steel (316L SS) by atomic force microscope (AFM) and electron back scattered diffraction (EBSD).
The results show that small fatigue cracks initiate from the slip band near the grain boundaries (GBs) or the twin boundaries (TBs).
Early crack propagation along or cross the slip band is strongly influenced by the local microstructure such as grain size, orientation, and boundary.
Besides, the gathered slip bands (SBs) are presented side by side with the damage grains of the run-out specimen.
Finally, it is found that dislocations can either pass through the TBs, or be arrested at the TBs.
This paper presents a study on the influence of welding residual stresses (RS) on fatigue crack propagation rate (FCPR) in mode I.
The objective of this work is to develop a novel methodology that allows a variation of a RS field in the studied specimen while keeping constant all other variables influencing FCPR.
This led to the development of a novel specimen geometry, named CT-RES, in which RS are introduced by weld bead deposition far from the region in which fatigue crack propagation (FCP) occurs.
As a consequence, the effect of factors influencing FCPR other than RS such as microstructural changes or plastic deformation, often introduced by welding processes, can be avoided.
The welding RS introduced in the CT-RES specimen were determined by the contour method and the weight functions method was used to calculate the stress intensity factor (SIF), Kres, resulting from the RS as the fatigue crack propagates into the specimen.
The evolution of cyclic stress ratio at the crack tip, Rlocal, was then computed from Kres to quantify the influence of RS on the cyclic stress ratio.
The results show that for a given stress intensity range, dK, the FCPR of the welded geometry with fixed externally low R ratio (R = 0.1), but constantly increasing Rlocal, is the same as for the as-machined geometry without RS, solicited at high cyclic stress ratio (R = 0.7).
These observations partially validate the BS7910 standard philosophy in which the remaining life of a flawed structure in presence of tensile RS is calculated from a high cyclic stress ratio (R > 0.5) crack propagation curve to eliminate crack closure effects.
Cast and HIP'ed \textgamma-TiAl 4522XD is being developed for use in jet engine low pressure turbine blades, where temperature variations occur through the flight cycle.
The effects of temperature variations on fatigue cracking were therefore examined in this study.
It was found that fatigue crack growth rates were higher at 750C than 400C, but that $ΔK_\mathrm{th}$ was also higher.
Temperature excursions between 400 and 750C during fatigue crack growth resulted in retardation of the crack growth rate, both on heating and cooling.
It was also found that for notches $0.6$~mm in length and smaller, initiation from the microstructure could instead be observed at stresses similar to the material failure stress; a microstructural initiation site exists.
A change from trans- to mixed trans-, inter- and intra-lamellar cracking could be observed where the estimated size of the crack tip plastic zone exceeded the colony size.
The deformation and fatigue crack nucleation mechanisms were studied by means of slip trace analysis and secondary electron microscopy in a textured AZ31B-O Mg alloy subjected to fully-reversed cyclic deformation at two different cyclic strain semi-amplitudes.
Samples were deformed in two orientations leading to symmetric and non-symmetric cyclic stress-strain curves due to the activation of different deformation mechanisms.
They were ascertained in longitudinal sections of the specimens, which included a large number of grains (from 1500 to 4500 for each specimen), to obtain statistically significant results.
If the dominant deformation mechanisms were basal slip and tensile twinning/detwinning, the most damaging fatigue cracks were nucleated along twins in large grains, together with cracks parallel to basal slip bands associated with the localization of deformation in clusters of small grains suitably oriented for basal slip.
If the main deformation mechanisms were tensile twinning/detwinning and pyramidal slip, the longest fatigue cracks were nucleated along pyramidal slip bands in large grains.
Grain boundary cracks around small grains were found in all cases, but they were not critical from the viewpoint of fatigue failure.
This information is relevant to assess the effect of the microstructural features on the fatigue life of Mg alloys and as input to simulate the fatigue behavior of Mg alloys using fatigue indicator parameters.
A microstructure-based model that accounts for the effect of grain size has been developed to study the effect of grain size on the fatigue life of Inconel 718 alloys.
The fatigue behavior of two alloys with different grain size was determined by means of uniaxial cyclic deformation tests under fully-reversed deformation ($R_\varepsilon$ = -1) at 400$^\circ$C in the low cycle fatigue regime.
The model was based in the determination of the fatigue indicator parameter (based on the local crystallographic strain energy dissipated per cycle) by means of computational homogenization of a representative volume element of the microstructure.
The mechanical response of the single crystal within the polycrystal was modelled through a phenomenological crystal plasticity model which was modified to account for the effect of grain size on the monotonic and cyclic hardening/softening mechanisms.
The microstructure-based crack initiation model parameters were calibrated from the experimental tests of the material with fine grain size.
The results of the fatigue simulations were in good agreement with the experimental results in terms of the cyclic stress-strain curves and of the number of cycles for fatigue crack initiation.
The model did not show any grain size effect on the fatigue life for the largest cyclic strain ranges while the predicted fatigue life predicted was considerably longer in the case of the microstructure with fine grain size for the lowest strain ranges, in quantitative agreement with experimental data.
These differences were attributed to changes in the deformation modes between homogeneous plastic deformation at large cyclic strain ranges and localized plasticity in a few grains at low cyclic strain ranges.
Predicting potential risks associated with the fatigue of key structural components is crucial in engineering design.
However, fatigue often involves entangled complexities of material microstructures and service conditions, making diagnosis and prognosis of fatigue damage challenging.
We report a statistical learning framework to predict the growth of fatigue cracks and the life-to-failure of the components under loading conditions with uncertainties.
Digital libraries of fatigue crack patterns and the remaining life are constructed by high-fidelity physical simulations.
Dimensionality reduction and neural network architectures are then used to learn the history dependence and nonlinearity of fatigue crack growth.
Path-slicing and re-weighting techniques are introduced to handle the statistical noises and rare events.
The predicted fatigue crack patterns are self-updated and self-corrected by the evolving crack patterns.
The end-to-end approach is validated by representative examples with fatigue cracks in plates, which showcase the digital-twin scenario in real-time structural health monitoring and fatigue life prediction for maintenance management decision-making.
Crack initiation governs high cycle fatigue life and is susceptible to microstructural details.
While corresponding microstructure-sensitive models are available, their validation is difficult.
We propose a validation framework where a fatigue test is mimicked in a sub-modeling simulation by embedding the measured microstructure into the specimen geometry and adopting the experimental boundary conditions.
Exemplary, a phenomenological crystal plasticity model was applied to predict deformation in ferritic steel (EN1.4003).
Hotspots in commonly used fatigue indicator parameter maps are compared with damage segmented from micrographs.
Along with the data, the framework is published for benchmarking future micromechanical fatigue models.
Crack initiation and propagation under high-cycle fatigue conditions have been investigated for a polycrystalline Ni-based superalloy by in-situ synchrotron assisted diffraction and phase contrast tomography.
The cracks nucleated along the longest coherent twin boundaries pre-existing on the specimen surface, that were well oriented for slip and that presented a large elastic incompatibility across them.
Moreover, the propagation of microstructurally short cracks was found to be determined by the easy slip transfer paths across the pre-existing grain boundaries.
This information can only be obtained by characterization techniques like the ones presented here that provide the full set of 3D microstructural information.
This paper describes a two-dimensional (2D) finite element simulation for fracture and fatigue behaviours of pure alumina microstructures such as those found at hip prostheses.
Finite element models are developed using actual Al2O3 microstructures and a bilinear cohesive zone law.
Simulation conditions are similar to those found at a slip zone in a dry contact between a femoral head and an acetabular cup of hip prosthesis.
Contact stresses are imposed to generate cracks in the models.
Magnitudes of imposed stresses are higher than those found at the microscopic scale.
Effects of microstructures and contact stresses are investigated in terms of crack formation.
In addition, fatigue behaviour of the microstructure is determined by performing simulations under cyclic loading conditions.
It is shown that crack density observed in a microstructure increases with increasing magnitude of applied contact stress.
Moreover, crack density increases linearly with respect to the number of fatigue cycles within a given contact stress range.
Meanwhile, as applied contact stress increases, number of cycles to failure decreases gradually.
Finally, this proposed finite element simulation offers an effective method for identifying fracture and fatigue behaviours of a microstructure provided that microstructure images are available.
Electrode particle cracking is one of the main phenomena driving battery capacity degradation.
Recent phase field fracture studies have investigated particle cracking behaviour.
However, only the beginning of life has been considered and effects such as damage accumulation have been neglected.
Here, a multi-physics phase field fatigue model has been developed to study crack propagation in battery electrode particles undergoing hundreds of cycles.
In addition, we couple our electrochemo-mechanical formulation with X-ray CT imaging to simulate fatigue cracking of realistic particle microstructures.
Using this modelling framework, non-linear crack propagation behaviour is predicted, leading to the observation of an exponential increase in cracked area with cycle number.
Three stages of crack growth (slow, accelerating and unstable) are observed, with phenomena such as crack initialisation at concave regions and crack coalescence having a significant contribution to the resulting fatigue crack growth rates.
The critical values of C-rate, particle size and initial crack length are determined, and found to be lower than those reported in the literature using static fracture models.
Therefore, this work demonstrates the importance of considering fatigue damage in battery degradation models and provides insights on the control of fatigue crack propagation to alleviate battery capacity degradation.
A novel FFT-based phase-field fracture framework for modelling fatigue crack initiation and propagation at the microscale is presented.
A damage driving force is defined based on the stored energy and dislocation density, relating phase-field fracture with microstructural fatigue damage.
The formulation is numerically implemented using FFT methods to enable modelling of sufficiently large, representative 3D microstructural regions.
The early stages of fatigue cracking are simulated, predicting crack paths, growth rates and sensitivity to relevant microstructural features.
Crack propagation through crystallographic planes is shown in single crystals, while the analysis of polycrystalline solids reveals transgranular crack initiation and crystallographic crack growth.
We investigate the influence of microstructural traps in hydrogen-assisted fatigue crack growth.
To this end, a new formulation combining multi-trap stress-assisted diffusion, mechanism-based strain gradient plasticity and a hydrogen- and fatigue-dependent cohesive zone model is presented and numerically implemented.
The results show that the ratio of loading frequency to effective diffusivity governs fatigue crack growth behaviour.
Increasing the density of \emph{beneficial} traps, not involved in the fracture process, results in lower fatigue crack growth rates.
The combinations of loading frequency and carbide trap densities that minimise embrittlement susceptibility are identified, providing the foundation for a rational design of hydrogen-resistant alloys.
The distributions of size and chemical composition in the regolith on airless bodies provides clues to the evolution of the solar system.
Recently, the regolith on asteroid (25143) Itokawa, visited by the JAXA Hayabusa spacecraft, was observed to contain millimeter to centimeter sized particles.
Itokawa boulders commonly display well-rounded profiles and surface textures that appear inconsistent with mechanical fragmentation during meteorite impact; the rounded profiles have been hypothesized to arise from rolling and movement on the surface as a consequence of seismic shaking.
We provide a possible explanation of these observations by exploring the primary crack propagation mechanisms during thermal fatigue of a chondrite.
We present the in situ evolution of the full-field strains on the surface as a function of temperature and microstructure, and observe and quantify the crack growth during thermal cycling.
We observe that the primary fatigue crack path preferentially follows the interfaces between monominerals, leaving them intact after fragmentation.
These observations are explained through a microstructure-based finite element model that is quantitatively compared with our experimental results.
These results on the interactions of thermal fatigue cracking with the microstructure may ultimately allow us to distinguish between thermally induced fragments and impact products.
The present work discusses the micro-mechanism of low cycle fatigue (LCF) crack growth in smooth bar specimens of Haynes 282.
Two parametric approaches, i.e. crack tip opening angle (CTOA) and maximum tangential stress (θMTS) have been opted to characterize the cracks.
CTOA variations along with a propagating crack, exhibit a non-linear decay followed by a stabilized regime.
Mixicity of local KI and KII fields is directly proportional to θMTS and that can be assessed by measuring local deflections.
Around the crack, the role of grain incompatibility has been addressed through EBSD and slip transfer analysis.
There is a critical bound for Elastic Modulus (EM) and Schmid factor (SF) for the grains favouring subsurface crack propagation, and these values exist beyond a limiting threshold.
The SF-EM maps mark the regions of cracked and uncracked grains in the material. The favourable twin-matrix incompatibility of the microstructure has also been identified about the fatigue crack growth and twins in (211) plane is abundant in the cracked region.
A detailed slip transfer analysis based on the Luster-Morris parameter (LMP) has been carried out for investigating the interrelation between slip activity, elasto-plastic incompatibility, and grain boundary geometry.
The propagation path of quasistatic cracks under monotonic loading is known to be strongly influenced by the anisotropy of the fracture energy in crystalline solids or engineered materials with a regular microstructure.
Such cracks generally follow directions close to minima of the fracture energy.
Here we demonstrate both experimentally and computationally that fatigue cracks under cyclic loading follow dramatically different paths that are predominantly dictated by the symmetry of the loading with the microstructure playing a negligible or subdominant role.
The study focuses on corrosion fatigue processes taking place in an ultrafine-grained (UFG) near-a-titanium alloy Ti-2.5Al-2.6Zr (Russian industrial name PT7M) used in nuclear engineering.
UFG structure formed with Rotary Swaging is found to increase resistance to corrosion fatigue.
Parameters of the Basquin's equation are defined and the slope of the fatigue curve Sa-lg(N) is shown to depend (nonmonotonic dependence) on the UFG alloy annealing temperature.
This effect can be explained with the patterns of microstructural evolution in a UFG alloy PT7M during annealing: (1) reduced density of lattice dislocations, (2) precipitation and dissolution of zirconium nanoparticles, (3) release of a''-phase particles causing internal stress fields along interphase (a-a'')-boundaries, and (4) intensive grain growth at elevated annealing temperatures.
It is shown that the fatigue crack closure effect manifested as changing internal stress fields determined using XRD method may be observed in UFG titanium alloys.
We investigate the influence of microstructural traps on hydrogen diffusion and embrittlement in the presence of cyclic loads.
A mechanistic, multi-trap model for hydrogen transport is developed, implemented into a finite element framework, and used to capture the variation of crack tip lattice and trapped hydrogen concentrations as a function of the loading frequency, the trap binding energies and the trap densities.
We show that the maximum value attained by the lattice hydrogen concentration during the cyclic analysis exhibits a notable sensitivity to the ratio between the loading frequency and the effective diffusion coefficient.
This is observed for both hydrogen pre-charged samples (closed-systems) and samples exposed to a permanent source of hydrogen (open-systems).
Experiments are used to determine the critical concentration for embrittlement, by mapping the range of frequencies where the output is the same as testing in inert environments.
We then quantitatively investigate and discuss the implications of developing materials with higher trap densities in mitigating embrittlement in the presence of cyclic loads.
It is shown that, unlike the static case, increasing the density of "beneficial traps" is a viable strategy in designing alloys resistant to hydrogen assisted fatigue for both closed- and open-systems.
High-cycle fatigue is a critical performance metric of structural alloys for many applications.
The high cost, time, and labor involved in experimental fatigue testing call for efficient and accurate computer models of fatigue life.
We present FIP-GNN -- a graph neural network for polycrystals that (i) predicts fatigue indicator parameters as grain-level inelastic responses to cyclic loading quantifying the local driving force for crack initiation and (ii) generalizes these predictions to large microstructure volume elements with grain populations well beyond those used in training.
These advances can make significant contributions to statistically rigorous and computationally efficient modeling of high-cycle fatigue -- a long-standing challenge in the field.
Nanocrystalline metals typically have high fatigue strengths, but low resistance to crack propagation.
Amorphous intergranular films are disordered grain boundary complexions that have been shown to delay crack nucleation and slow crack propagation during monotonic loading by diffusing grain boundary strain concentrations, suggesting they may also be beneficial for fatigue properties.
To probe this hypothesis, in situ transmission electron microscopy fatigue cycling is performed on Cu-1 at.% Zr thin films thermally treated to have either only ordered grain boundaries or to contain amorphous intergranular films.
The sample with only ordered grain boundaries experienced grain coarsening at crack initiation followed by unsteady crack propagation and extensive nanocracking, whereas the sample containing amorphous intergranular films had no grain coarsening at crack initiation followed by steady crack propagation and distributed plastic activity.
Microstructural design for control of these behaviors through simple thermal treatments can allow for the improvement of nanocrystalline metal fatigue toughness.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to describe finite element modelling for fracture and fatigue behaviour of zirconia toughened alumina microstructures.
Design/methodology/approach - A two-dimensional finite element model is developed with an actual $Al{_2}O{_3}$ - 10 vol% $ZrO{_2}$ microstructure.
A bilinear, time-independent cohesive zone law is implemented for describing fracture behaviour of grain boundaries.
Simulation conditions are similar to those found at contact between a head and a cup of hip prosthesis.
Residual stresses arisen from the mismatch of thermal coefficient between grains are determined.
Then, effects of a micro-void and contact stress magnitude are investigated with models containing residual stresses.
For the purpose of simulating fatigue behaviour, cyclic loadings are applied to the models.
Findings - Results show that crack density is gradually increased with increasing magnitude of contact stress or number of fatigue cycles.
It is also identified that a micro-void brings about the increase of crack density rate.
Social implications - This paper is the first step for predicting the lifetime of ceramic implants.
The social implications would appear in the next few years about health issues.
Originality/value - This proposed finite element method allows describing fracture and fatigue behaviours of alumina-zirconia microstructures for hip prosthesis, provided that a microstructure image is available.
Fatigue properties of additively manufactured (AM) materials depend on many factors such as AM processing parameter, microstructure, residual stress, surface roughness, porosities, post-treatments, etc.
Their evaluation inevitably requires these factors combined as many as possible, thus resulting in low efficiency and high cost.
In recent years, their assessment by leveraging the power of machine learning (ML) has gained increasing attentions.
Here, we present a comprehensive overview on the state-of-the-art progress of applying ML strategies to predict fatigue properties of AM materials, as well as their dependence on AM processing and post-processing parameters such as laser power, scanning speed, layer height, hatch distance, built direction, post-heat temperature, etc.
A few attempts in employing feedforward neural network (FNN), convolutional neural network (CNN), adaptive network-based fuzzy system (ANFS), support vector machine (SVM) and random forest (RF) to predict fatigue life and RF to predict fatigue crack growth rate are summarized.
The ML models for predicting AM materials' fatigue properties are found intrinsically similar to the commonly used ones, but are modified to involve AM features.
Finally, an outlook for challenges (i.e., small dataset, multifarious features, overfitting, low interpretability, unable extension from AM material data to structure life) and potential solutions for the ML prediction of AM materials' fatigue properties is provided.
The brittleness of an aluminide diffusion coating protecting a René 125 Ni-based polycrystalline superalloy was investigated over a wide range of temperatures in its as-received and thermally aged form.
Isothermal and thermal cycled aging were performed on the coated system at a maximum temperature of 1100 °C.
Microstructure evolutions and damage initiation within the coating were characterized.
Interrupted tensile tests and thermomechanical fatigue tests were conducted to document critical stress-strain conditions leading to the coating cracking and lifetime for the case of thermo-mechanical fatigue loading.
Advanced digital image correlation and acoustic emission techniques were used to detect coating cracking.
Isothermal oxidation or cyclic oxidation led to improved strain-to-failure due to metallurgical evolutions and also longer fatigue life under thermomechanical fatigue conditions.
High-entropy alloys (HEAs) refer to alloys composed of five or more elements in equal or near-equal amounts or in an atomic concentration range of 5 to 35 atomic percent (at%).
Different elemental ratios will affect the microstructures of HEAs and provide them with unique properties.
Based on past research, HEAs have exhibited superior performance, relative to most conventional alloys, with respect to many properties, such as strength, toughness, corrosion resistance, magnetic behavior, etc.
Among them, fatigue behavior has been a topic of focus, due to its importance in industrial applications.
In this article, we summarized the research progress in the HEA-fatigue behavior in the past ten years, including experimental results and theoretical studies in subdivisions, such as high-cycle fatigue, low-cycle fatigue, fatigue-crack growth, fatigue mechanisms, etc.
The influence of the processing and test methods on HEAs is described.
The accuracy of several commonly used prediction models is also outlined.
Finally, unresolved issues and suggestions on the direction of future research efforts are presented.
The CrMnFeCoNi high-entropy alloy is highly printable and holds great potential for structural applications.
However, no significant discussions on cyclic plasticity and fatigue damage in previous studies.
This study provides significant insights into the link between print processes, solidification microstructure, cyclic plasticity and fatigue damage evolution in the alloy fabricated by laser powder bed fusion.
Thermodynamics-based predictions (validated by scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX)) showed that Cr, Co and Fe partition to the core of the solidification cells, whilst Mn and Ni to the cell boundaries in all considered print parameters.
Both dislocation slip and deformation twinning were found to be responsible for plastic deformation under monotonic loading.
However, the former was found to be the single dominant mechanism for cyclic plasticity.
The surface finish helped to substantially delay the crack initiation and cause lack-of-fusion porosity to be the main source of crack initiation.
Most significantly, the scan strategies significantly affect grain arrangements and grain dimensions, leading to noticeable effects on fatigue crack propagation; in particular, the highest resistance crack propagation was seen in the meander scan strategy with 0° rotation thanks to the most columnar grains and the smallest spacing of grain boundaries along the crack propagation path.
The analysis of standardized low cycle fatigue (LCF) experiments shows that the failure times widely scatter.
Furthermore, mechanical components often fail before the deterministic failure time is reached.
A possibility to overcome these problems is to consider probabilistic failure times.
Our approach for probabilistic life prediction is based on the microstructure of the metal. Since we focus on nickel-base alloys we consider a coarse grained microstructure, with random oriented FCC grains.
This leads to random distributed Schmid factors and different anisotropic stress in each grain.
To gain crack initiation times, we use Coffin-Manson- Basquin and Ramberg-Osgood equation on stresses corrected with probabilistic Schmid factors.
Using these single grain crack initiation times, we have developed an epidemiological crack growth model over multiple grains.
In this mesoscopic crack percolation model, cracked grains induce a stress increase in neighboring grains.
This stress increase is realized using a machine learning model trained on data generated from finite element simulations.
The resulting crack clusters are evaluated with a failure criterion based on a multimodal stress intensity factor.
From the generated failure times, we calculate surface dependent hazard rates using a Monte Carlo framework.
We compare the obtained failure time distributions to data from LCF experiments and find good coincidence of predicted and measured scatter bands.
The lifetime of most metals is limited by cyclic loads, ending in fatigue failure.
The progressive growth of cracks ends up in catastrophic failure.
An advanced method is presented for the determination of cyclic crack growth on the microscale using a nanoindenter, which allows the characterization of > 10,000 loading cycles.
It uses focused ion beam fabricated notched microcantilevers.
The method has been validated by cyclic bending metallic glass and tungsten microcantilevers.
The experiments reveal a stable crack growth during the lifetime of both samples.
The metallic glass shows less plasticity due to the absence of dislocations, but shows shearing caused by the deformation.
The crack growth rates determined in the tests follow Paris' power law relationship.
The results are reliable, reproducible and comparable with macroscopic setups.
Due to the flexibility of the method, it is suitable for the characterization of specific microstructural features, like single phases, grain boundaries or different grain orientations.
Environmentally assisted cracking phenomena are widespread across the transport, defence, energy and construction sectors.
However, predicting environmentally assisted fractures is a highly cross-disciplinary endeavour that requires resolving the multiple material-environment interactions taking place.
In this manuscript, an overview is given of recent breakthroughs in the modelling of environmentally assisted cracking.
The focus is on the opportunities created by two recent developments: phase field and multi-physics modelling.
The possibilities enabled by the confluence of phase field methods and electro-chemo-mechanics modelling are discussed in the context of three environmental assisted cracking phenomena of particular engineering interest: hydrogen embrittlement, localised corrosion and corrosion fatigue.
Mechanical processes such as deformation and fracture can be coupled with chemical phenomena like local reactions, ionic transport and hydrogen uptake and diffusion.
Moreover, these can be combined with the prediction of an evolving interface, such as a growing pit or a crack, as dictated by a phase field variable that evolves based on thermodynamics and local kinetics.
Suitable for both microstructural and continuum length scales, this new generation of simulation-based, multi-physics phase field models can open new modelling horizons and enable Virtual Testing in harmful environments.
Microstructure evolution in matter is often modeled numerically using field or level-set solvers, mirroring the dual representation of spatiotemporal complexity in terms of pixel or voxel data, and geometrical forms in vector graphics.
Motivated by this analog, as well as the structural and event-driven nature of artificial and spiking neural networks, respectively, we evaluate their performance in learning and predicting fatigue crack growth and Turing pattern development.
Predictions are made based on digital libraries constructed from computer simulations, which can be replaced by experimental data to lift the mathematical overconstraints of physics.
Our assessment suggests that the leaky integrate-and-fire neuron model offers superior predictive accuracy with fewer parameters and less memory usage, alleviating the accuracy-cost tradeoff in contrast to the common practices in computer vision tasks.
Examination of network architectures shows that these benefits arise from its reduced weight range and sparser connections.
The study highlights the capability of event-driven models in tackling problems with evolutionary bulk-phase and interface behaviors using the digital library approach.
Experimental Kitagawa analysis has been performed on A356-T6 containing natural and artificial defects.
Results are obtained with a load ratio of R = -1 for three different loadings: tension, torsion and combined tension-torsion.
The critical defect size determined is 400 \pm 100 \mum in A356-T6 under multiaxial loading.
Below this value, the microstructure governs the endurance limit mainly through Secondary Dendrite Arm Spacing (SDAS).
Four theoretical approaches are used to simulate the endurance limit characterized by a Kitagawa relationship are compared: Murakami relationships [Y Murakami, Metal Fatigue: Effects of Small Defects and Nonmetallic Inclusions, Elsevier, 2002.], defect-crack equivalency via Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics (LEFM), the Critical Distance Method (CDM) proposed by Susmel and Taylor [L.
Mech. 75 (2008) 15.] and the gradient approach proposed by Nadot [Y.
It is shown that the CDM and gradient methods are accurate; however fatigue data for three loading conditions is necessary to allow accurate identification of an endurance limit.
Natural hard composites like human bone possess a combination of strength and toughness that exceeds that of their constituents and of many engineered composites.
This augmentation is attributed to their complex hierarchical structure, spanning multiple length scales; in bone, characteristic dimensions range from nanoscale fibrils to microscale lamellae to mesoscale osteons and macroscale organs.
The mechanical properties of bone have been studied, with the understanding that the isolated microstructure at micro- and nano-scales gives rise to superior strength compared to that of whole tissue, and the tissue possesses an amplified toughness relative to that of its nanoscale constituents.
Nanoscale toughening mechanisms of bone are not adequately understood at sample dimensions that allow for isolating salient microstructural features, because of the challenge of performing fracture experiments on small-sized samples.
We developed an in-situ three-point bend experimental methodology that probes site-specific fracture behavior of micron-sized specimens of hard material. Using this, we quantify crack initiation and growth toughness of human trabecular bone with sharp fatigue pre-cracks and blunt notches.
Our findings indicate that bone with fatigue cracks is two times tougher than that with blunt cracks.
In-situ data-correlated electron microscopy videos reveal this behavior arises from crack-bridging by nanoscale fibril structure.
The results reveal a transition between fibril-bridging (~1 $μ$m) and crack deflection/twist (~500 $μ$m) as a function of length-scale, and quantitatively demonstrate hierarchy-induced toughening in a complex material. This versatile approach enables quantifying the relationship between toughness and microstructure in various complex material systems and provides direct insight for designing biomimetic composites.
Thermomechanical processes such as fatigue and shock have been suggested to cause and contribute to rock breakdown on Earth, and on other planetary bodies, particularly airless bodies in the inner solar system.
In this study, we modeled grain-scale stresses induced by diurnal temperature variations on simple microstructures made of pyroxene and plagioclase on various solar system bodies.
We found that a heterogeneous microstructure on the Moon experiences peak tensile stresses on the order of 100 MPa. The stresses induced are controlled by the coefficient of thermal expansion and Young's modulus of the mineral constituents, and the average stress within the microstructure is determined by relative volume of each mineral. Amplification of stresses occurs at surface-parallel boundaries between adjacent mineral grains and at the tips of pore spaces.
We also found that microscopic spatial and temporal surface temperature gradients do not correlate with high stresses, making them inappropriate proxies for investigating microcrack propagation.
Although these results provide very strong evidence for the significance of thermomechanical processes on airless bodies, more work is needed to quantify crack propagation and rock breakdown rates.
Durable, high-performance and eco-friendly lead-free piezoceramics are essential for next-generation sustainable energy transducers and electromechanical systems.
While significant performance enhancements have been made, through chemical composition, texture, or crystal defects, piezoceramics are intrinsically weak mechanically, which negatively impact their working conditions and durability.
What's more, improving comprehensive mechanical durability without sacrificing piezoelectric performance remains a key challenge.
Here, we design bioinspired Bi0.5Na0.5TiO3 (BNT) ceramics using a scalable colloidal process that enables multiscale control over the microstructure.
The design comprises plate-like monocrystalline BNT bricks stacked to induce a crystallographic texture along the poling direction, bonded together by a silica-based mortar, forming the brick-and-mortar phase.
This deliberate microstructure design yields 2- to 3-fold increase in flexural strength, and 1.6- to 2-fold increase in fracture toughness compared with a BNT synthesized conventionally, comparable to common structural ceramics, without sacrificing the piezoelectric performance.
In addition, the bioinspired BNT exhibit dramatically enhanced ferroelectric fatigue resistance, with a 10- to 15-folds improvement in the number of field-induced electromechanical cycles before failure.
These gains originate from anisotropic residual stress fields, revealed by Raman spectroscopy and XRD, which delay crack initiation events.
Furthermore, we demonstrated enhanced transducing capability and electromechanical fatigue resistance using a cantilever beam-based piezoelectric transducer under bending mode.
Given its non-chemical-compositional origin, this bioinspired strategy could be broadly applicable to other piezoelectric material systems for applications where both functional and structural performance are critical.
We reconstruct a 3D model of the surface of a material undergoing fatigue testing and experiencing cracking.
Specifically we reconstruct the surface depth (out of plane intrusions and extrusions) and lateral (in-plane) motion from multiple views of the sample at the end of the experiment, combined with a reverse optical flow propagation backwards in time that utilizes interim single view images.
These measurements can be mapped to a material strain tensor which helps to understand material life and predict failure.
This approach offers an alternative to the commonly used Digital Image Correlation (DIC) technique which relies on tracking a speckle pattern applied to the material surface.
DIC only produces in-plane (2D) measurements whereas our approach is 3D and non-invasive (requires no pattern being applied to the material).
A simple analytical model of intergranular normal stresses is proposed for a general elastic polycrystalline material with arbitrary shaped and randomly oriented grains under uniform loading.
The model provides algebraic expressions for the local grain-boundary-normal stress and the corresponding uncertainties, as a function of the grain-boundary type, its inclination with respect to the direction of external loading and material-elasticity parameters.
The knowledge of intergranular normal stresses is a necessary prerequisite in any local damage modeling approach, e.g., to predict the intergranular stress-corrosion cracking, grain-boundary sliding or fatigue-crack-initiation sites in structural materials.
The model is derived in a perturbative manner, starting with the exact solution of a simple setup and later successively refining it to account for higher order complexities of realistic polycrystalline materials.
In the simplest scenario, a bicrystal model is embedded in an isotropic elastic medium and solved for uniaxial loading conditions, assuming 1D Reuss and Voigt approximations on different length scales.
In the final iteration, the grain boundary becomes a part of a 3D structure consisting of five 1D chains with arbitrary number of grains and surrounded by an anisotropic elastic medium.
Constitutive equations can be solved for arbitrary uniform loading, for any grain-boundary type and choice of elastic polycrystalline material. At each iteration, the algebraic expressions for the local grain-boundary-normal stress, along with the corresponding statistical distributions, are derived and their accuracy systematically verified and validated against the finite element simulation results of different Voronoi microstructures.
Dislocation interactions at the crack nucleation site were investigated in near-alpha titanium alloy Ti-6242Si subjected to low cycle fatigue.
Cyclic plastic strain in the alloy resulted in dislocation pile-ups in the primary alpha grains, nucleated at the boundaries between the primary alpha and the two-phase regions.
These two phase regions provided a barrier to slip transfer between primary alpha grains.
We suggest that crack nucleation occurred near the basal plane of primary alpha grains by the subsurface double-ended pile-up mechanism first conceived by Tanaka and Mura.
Superjogs on the basal <a> dislocations were observed near the crack nucleation location.
The two phase regions showed direct transmission of a3 dislocations between secondary alpha plates, transmitted through the beta ligaments as a[010], which then decompose into (a/2)<111> dislocation networks in the beta.
The beta ligaments themselves do not appear to form an especially impenetrable barrier to slip, in agreement with the micropillar and crystal plasticity investigations of Zhang et al.
The fatigue properties of 930 nm-thick Au films and 1 μm-thick Au film with a Ti interlayer are systematically investigated.
The dominant damage behaviors of 930 nm-thick Au films under dynamic bending cyclic loading changed from extrusions to intergranular cracks with the decrease in strain ranges and the increase in cyclic cycles.
The different fatigue behaviors are attributed to the process of edge dislocation annihilation and vacancy formation during cyclic deformation.
Depositing 10 nm-thick Ti interlayers between the PI substrates and 1 μm-thick annealed Au films is effective to suppress strain localization and increase the rupture strain and the fatigue properties of thin Au films.
This study shed lights on the fatigue mechanism and provide clues to design nanocomposites in the flexible displays in the practical application.
Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have been performed to investigate the fatigue deformation behaviour of polycrystalline Cu with grain size of 5.4 nm. The samples were prepared using Voronoi algorithm with random grain orientations.
Fatigue simulations were carried out by employing fully reversed, total strain controlled cyclic loading at strain amplitude of $\pm4$\% for 10 cycles.
The MD simulation results indicated that the deformation behaviour under cyclic loading is dominated by the slip of partial dislocations enclosing the stacking faults.
At higher number of cycles, the grain boundary migration leading to coarsening of larger grains at the expense of the smaller grains has been observed.
The cyclic stress-strain behaviour, the deformation mechanisms and the variation of dislocation density as a function of cyclic deformation have been discussed.
It was experimentally confirmed that if steel cyclic stress reduces to less than tensile yield stress values, i.e. in case of high-cycle fatigue, the mechanism of fracture changes from dislocation to vacancy one.
This conclusion was based on the fact that steel density determined by the method of liquid displacement is less than that of steel in both initial condition and after fracture under the cyclic loads exceeding tensile yield stress values.
In the latter case steel hardness increases, whereas the steels fractured under the cyclic stresses less than their tensile yield stress values show no change in hardness.
It means that in such a case metal fractures without strain hardening, i.e. undergoes brittle fracturing developing by vacancy mechanism rather than by dislocation one.
As a result such steel obtains the structure and properties similar to those appearing after its exposure to radiation, i.e. friability and brittleness.
The results obtained allow us to explain the presence of a horizontal section in the Wöhler fatigue failure diagram
Cyclic thermal loads imposed on a W divertor by strikepoint sweeping may induce low-cycle thermal fatigue cracking of its plasma-facing surfaces.
This cracking may be accelerated by plasma-material interactions such as H implantation, blistering, fuzz and void formation.
Fatigue cracking may also synergise with ELM cracking.
To explore these novel forms of environmentally assisted fatigue, FEA modelling was used to design a uniaxial fatigue experiment for Magnum-PSI that represents strikepoint sweeping at 1 Hz across a 100 mm span of a divertor target.
Magnum-PSI was used to combine cyclic thermal loading of W with H implantation and two forms of ELM like pre-cracking.
Quantitative SEM analysis of fatigue-cracked W revealed that H implantation significantly delayed crack initiation, with preimplanted targets requiring 450-600 cycles before failure compared to 150 cycles for non-implanted samples.
This was attributed to hydrogen-induced dislocation pinning, which produces a case-hardening effect that inhibits persistent slip band formation.
ELM-like pre-cracking combined with strikepoint sweeping was found to give rise to localised melting and the formation of 30 micromete diameter droplets, caused by thermal isolation of W regions by fatigue cracks.
The implications for the fatigue lifetime of tokamak divertors are also discussed.
Conventional discrete-to-continuum approaches have seen their limitation in describing the collective behaviour of the multi-polar configurations of dislocations, which are widely observed in crystalline materials.
The reason is that dislocation dipoles, which play an important role in determining the mechanical properties of crystals, often get smeared out when traditional homogenisation methods are applied.
To address such difficulties, the collective behaviour of a row of dislocation dipoles is studied by using matched asymptotic techniques.
The discrete-to-continuum transition is facilitated by introducing two field variables respectively describing the dislocation pair density potential and the dislocation pair width.
It is found that the dislocation pair width evolves much faster than the pair density.
Such hierarchy in evolution time scales enables us to describe the dislocation dynamics at the coarse-grained level by an evolution equation for the slowly varying variable (the pair density) coupled with an equilibrium equation for the fast varying variable (the pair width).
The time-scale separation method adopted here paves a way for properly incorporating dipole-like (zero net Burgers vector but non-vanishing) dislocation structures, known as the statistically stored dislocations (SSDs) into macroscopic models of crystal plasticity in three dimensions.
Moreover, the natural transition between different equilibrium patterns found here may also shed light on understanding the emergence of the persistent slip bands (PSBs) in fatigue metals induced by cyclic loads.
In metals geometrically necessary dislocations (GNDs) are generated primarily to accommodate strain gradients and they play a key role in the Bauschinger effect, strain hardening, micron-scale size effects and fatigue.
During bending large strain gradients naturally emerge which makes this deformation mode exceptionally suitable to study the evolution of GNDs.
Here we present bi-directional bending experiment of a Cu single crystalline microcantilever with in situ characterisation of the dislocation microstructure in terms of high-resolution electron backscatter diffraction (HR-EBSD).
The experiments are complemented with dislocation density modelling to provide physical understanding of the collective dislocation phenomena.
We find that dislocation pile-ups form around the neutral zone during initial bending, however, these do not dissolve upon reversed loading, rather they contribute to the development of a much more complex GND dominated microstructure.
This irreversible process is analysed in detail in terms of the involved Burgers vectors and slip systems to provide an in-depth explanation of the Bauschinger-effect and strain hardening at this scale.
We conclude that the most dominant role in this behaviour is played by short-range dislocation interactions.
The deformation mechanisms governing the cyclic stress-strain behaviour of a TiNi shape memory alloy were investigated in this work.
To understand the development of these mechanisms during cyclic loading, three low-cycle fatigue tests were performed and stopped at different stages.
The first test was stopped after the first cycle; the second one was stopped after 40 cycles, corresponding to the beginning of the stabilisation of the cyclic strain-stress behaviour; and the last one was carried out to failure (3324 cycles).
Submitted to fatigue loading, the response of the TiNi shape memory alloy presents a classical pseudoelastic response.
Two deformation mechanisms, identified by TEM observations, are highlighted, the first one by twins and the second by dislocation slip and its interaction with precipitates.
These two mechanisms evolve without competition during cyclic loading.
The nanomechanical properties of the alloy were also examined, and the evolution of the microhardness or indentation modulus was monitored.
The main purpose of this study is to determine, via a three dimensions Finite Element analysis (FE), the stress and strain fields at the inner surface of a tubular specimen submitted to thermo-mechanical fatigue.
To investigate the surface finish effect on fatigue behaviour at this inner surface, mechanical tests were carried out on real size tubular specimens under various thermal loadings.
X ray measurements, Transmission Electron Microscopy observations and micro-hardness tests performed at and under the inner surface of the specimen before testing, revealed residual internal stresses and a large dislocation microstructure gradient in correlation with hardening gradients due to machining.
A memory effect, bound to the pre-hardening gradient, was introduced into an elasto-visco-plastic model in order to determine the stress and strain fields at the inner surface.
The temperature evolution on the inner surface of the tubular specimen was first computed via a thermo-elastic model and then used for our thermo-mechanical simulations.
Identification of the thermo-mechanical model parameters was based on the experimental stabilized cyclic tension-compression tests performed at 20^{\circ}C and 300^{\circ}C.
A good agreement was obtained between numerical stabilized traction-compression cycle curves (with and without pre-straining) and experimental ones.
This 3 dimensional simulation gave access to the evolution of the axial and tangential internal stresses and local strains during the tests.
Numerical results showed: a decreasing of the tangential stress and stabilization after 40 cycles, whereas the axial stress showed weaker decreasing with the number of cycles.
The results also pointed out a ratcheting and a slightly non proportional loading at the inner surface.
The computed mean stress and strain values of the stabilized cycle being far from the initial ones, they could be used to get the safety margins of standard design related to fatigue, as well as to get accurate loading conditions needed for the use of more advanced fatigue analysis and criteria.
Gold-Silver (Au-Ag) core-shell nanostructures are gaining importance in stretchable electronics where high tensile and fatigue resistance is of paramount importance.
This work proposes the parameterization of a modified embedded atomic model (MEAM) interatomic potential through density functional theory (DFT) calculations for investigating the role of dislocations and defect interaction governing the mechanical behavior of Au-Ag and Ag-Au Core-shell nanostructures under tensile and fatigue loading using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations.
A comparative analysis between the Core-shell structures and their pristine counterparts is also conducted.
Throughout this work, pseudo-potential and all-electron full potential DFT schemes are used for parameterizing MEAM by calculating cohesive energy, lattice parameter, and bulk modulus of pure Au, Ag and their alloy.
Using the new force-field for MD simulations, the tensile behavior of pristine and core-shell nanowires is explored for temperatures between 300K to 600K.
The fatigue properties of two pristine and two core-shell nanowires in a strain range of -15% to 15% for 10 cycles is also conducted.
Our results suggest that Ag-Au Core-shell nanowire shows the best reversibility under fatigue loading among the structures examined.
Moreover, Ag-Au exhibit the highest dislocation formation and complete annihilation of defects consistently.
While, Au-Ag present improved fatigue properties than its pristine counterparts but have some residual defects leading to lower reversibility when compared to Ag-Au.
For tensile loading, all four structures exhibited deterioration in strength with increasing temperature.
Thermal softening is seen to be more prominent in Au-Ag core-shell nanowires compared to Ag-Au.
A microstructure-sensitive fatigue life prediction framework based on CP-FFT is proposed to study SLM fabricated Hastelloy-X.
The microstructure enters in the model through the shape, size and orientation distributions of grains in the RVEs, which are generated from experimental EBSD data.
The framework has been applied to specimens built in two different directions with different polycrystalline microstructures and is able to accurately predict their fatigue life, using just two experiments for calibration.
The model reproduces the better fatigue performance found experimentally at high stresses for samples built in transverse direction, identifying the origin of this anisotropy in grain aspect ratios.
The deformation and crack initiation mechanisms were analyzed in a textured AZ31B-O Mg alloy subjected to fully-reversed, strain-controlled cyclic deformation along the rolling direction after 50 cycles (approximately 33% of the fatigue life).
Distinct deformation bands corresponding to pyramidal slip or tensile twins were found in 538 grains out of 2100 grains.
Slip trace analysis showed that 72.3% were pyramidal slip bands and 18.4% were twin boundaries.
Both pyramidal slip and twinning was only found in 9.1% of the grains with deformation bands.
Cracking was widespread after 50 cycles.
Grain boundary cracks were found in approximately 15% of the small grains (< 20 $μ$m) and they were mainly associated with high angle grain boundaries (>40 degrees).
Cracking was also found to occur by transgranular cracks parallel to the pyramidal slip bands or twin boundaries in large grains (>45 $μ$m).
The majority (>60%) of these large grains presented transgranular cracks after 50 cycles.
Recent advancements in machine learning-based methods have demonstrated great potential for improved property prediction in material science.
However, reliable estimation of the confidence intervals for the predicted values remains a challenge, due to the inherent complexities in material modeling.
This study introduces a novel approach for uncertainty quantification in fatigue life prediction of metal materials based on integrating knowledge from physics-based fatigue life models and machine learning models.
The proposed approach employs physics-based input features estimated using the Basquin fatigue model to augment the experimentally collected data of fatigue life.
Furthermore, a physics-informed loss function that enforces boundary constraints for the estimated fatigue life of considered materials is introduced for the neural network models.
Experimental validation on datasets comprising collected data from fatigue life tests for Titanium alloys and Carbon steel alloys demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The synergy between physics-based models and data-driven models enhances the consistency in predicted values and improves uncertainty interval estimates.
In the present work, theoretical approaches, based on grain orientation dependent Young's modulus and Schmid factor are used to describe the influence of local grain orientation on crack initiation behaviour of the coarse grained nickel base superalloy René80.
Especially for strongly anisotropic crystal structures with large grain size, such as the investigated material, the local elastic properties must be taken into account for assessment of fatigue crack initiation.
With an extension of Schmid's law, the resulting shear stress amplitude, which triggers local cyclic plastic deformation, can be calculated depending on local Young's modulus and Schmid factor.
A Monte Carlo simulation with 100,000 samples shows how random grain orientation affects these parameters.
Furthermore, the product of Young's modulus and Schmid factor (called $E\cdot m$) is used as a parameter to determine how grain orientation influences resulting shear stress amplitude for given total strain amplitude.
In addition to the theoretical work using that approach, this model is also validated using isothermal LCF experiments by determining local grain orientation influence on the crack initiation site using SEM-EBSD analyses.
Three-dimensional dislocation dynamics simulations are used to study micro-crack interaction with the first micro-structural barrier in face-centred cubic bi-crystals loaded in high cycle fatigue conditions.
In the examined configuration, we assumed that micro-crack transmission occurs due to surface relief growth in the secondary grain ahead of the primary crack.
This indirect transmission mechanism is shown to strongly depend on grain-1/grain-2 disorientation.
For instance, small grain disorientation induces plastic strain localisation ahead of the crack and faster transmission through the first barrier.
Conversely, large grain-1/grain-2 disorientation induces plastic strain spreading similar to crack tip blunting yielding slower indirect transmission.
A semi-analytical micro-model is developed based on the present simulation results and complementary experimental observations highlighting the original notion of first-barrier compliance.
The model captures well known experimental trends including effects of: grain-size, grain disorientation and micro-crack retardation at the first barrier.
For the first time, the fatigue behavior involving external oxygen in highly Sc-doped AlN ferroelectric film was observed using transmission electron microscope techniques.
Despite increasing the Sc composition in AlScN film contributes to reducing the device operation voltage, the inherent affinity of Sc for oxygen introduces instability in device performance.
In this study, oxygen incorporation at top electrode edges and grain boundaries accompanied with an increase in current leakage and the disappearance of ferroelectric properties, was observed in nanoscale after long-term field cycling.
This observation indicates the emergence of non-ferroelectric and even amorphous states.
This presented work revealed solid experimental evidence of an oxygen-involved fatigue mechanism, providing valuable insights into the physical nature of the ferroelectric properties of AlScN films.
The electrochemical permeation test is one of the most used methods for characterising hydrogen diffusion in metals.
The flux of hydrogen atoms registered in the oxidation cell might be fitted to obtain apparent diffusivities.
The magnitude of this coefficient has a decisive influence on the kinetics of fracture or fatigue phenomena assisted by hydrogen and depends largely on hydrogen retention in microstructural traps.
In order to improve the numerical fitting of diffusion coefficients, a permeation test has been reproduced using FEM simulations considering two approaches: a continuum 1D model in which the trap density, binding energy and the input lattice concentrations are critical variables and a polycrystalline model where trapping at grain boundaries is simulated explicitly including a segregation factor and a diffusion coefficient different from that of the interior of the grain.
Results show that the continuum model captures trapping delay, but it should be modified to model the trapping influence on the steady state flux.
Permeation behaviour might be classified according to different regimes depending on deviation from Fickian diffusion.
Polycrystalline synthetic permeation shows a strong influence of segregation on output flux magnitude.
This approach is able to simulate also the short-circuit diffusion phenomenon.
The comparison between different grain sizes and grain boundary thicknesses by means of the fitted apparent diffusivity shows the relationships between the registered flux and the characteristic parameters of traps.
The dislocation structures appearing in highly mis-oriented soft/hard grain pairs in near-alpha titanium alloy Ti6242Si were examined with and without the application of load holds (dwell) during fatigue.
Dislocation pile-up in a soft grain resulted in internal stresses in an adjacent hard grain which could be relaxed by dislocation multiplication at localized Frank-Read sources, a process assisted by the provision of a relaxation time during a load hold.
The rate of this process is suggested to be controlled by <c+a> pyramidal cross-slip and <a> basal junction formation.
A high density of <a> prism pile-ups is observed by dual slip, together with the nucleation of edge dislocations in the soft grain of a highly mis-oriented grain pair, increasing the possibility of cracking.
The stress concentration developed by such pile-ups is found to be higher in dwell fatigue (single-ended pile-ups) than in LCF (double ended).
Analytical modelling shows that the maximum normal stress produced on the hard grain in dwell fatigue by this pile-up would be near-basal, ~2.5 degree to (0002).
This provides support for the dominant hypothesis for the rationalisation of dwell fatigue crack nucleation in Ti alloys, which derives from the Stroh pile-up model, and elaboration of the underlying dislocation phenomena that result from load shedding and lead to basal faceting.
Strain-controlled fatigue of Mg-1Mn-0.5Nd (wt.\%) alloy were studied by experiment and simulation.
The microstructure was made up of a dispersion of strongly texture grains (13\%) embedded in a matrix of grains with a random texture.
The cyclic stress-strain curves showed limited tension-compression anisotropy because of the limited texture.
Cyclic hardening under compression and cyclic softening under tension occurred due to the presence of twinning.
Moreover, the twin volume fraction of the broken samples depended on whether the sample was broken in tension or compression, indicating that twining-detwinning occurs during the whole fatigue life.
The mechanical response of the polycrystalline alloy was simulated by means of computational homogenization.
The behavior of the Mg grains was modelled using a phenomenological crystal plasticity model that accounted for basal, prismatic and pyramidal slip (including isotropic and kinematic hardening) as well as twining and detwinning.
The model parameters were calibrated from the cyclic stress-strain curves at different cyclic strain amplitudes.
Numerical simulations were used to understand the dominant deformation mechanisms and to predict the fatigue life by means of a fatigue indicator parameter based on the accumulated plastic shear strain in each fatigue cycle.
Fatigue failure in ferroelectrics has been intensively investigated in the past few decades.
Most of the mechanisms discussed for ferroelectric fatigue have been built on the "hypothesis of variation in charged defects", which however are rarely evidenced by experimental observation.
Here, using a combination of complex impedance spectra techniques, piezoresponse force microscopy and first-principles theory, we examine the microscopic evolution and redistribution of charged defects during the electrical cycling in BiFeO3 thin films.
The dynamic formation and melting behaviors of oxygen vacancy (VO) order are identified during the fatigue process.
It reveals that the isolated VO tend to self-order along grain boundaries to form a planar-aligned structure, which blocks the domain reversals.
Upon further electrical cycling, migration of VO within vacancy clusters is accommodated with a lower energy barrier (~0.2 eV) and facilitates the formation of nearby-electrode layer incorporated with highly concentrated VO.
The interplay between the macroscopic fatigue and microscopic evolution of charged defects clearly demonstrates the role of ordered VO cluster in the fatigue failure of BiFeO3 thin films.
A framework based on FFT is proposed for micromechanical fatigue modeling of polycrystals as alternative to the Finite Element method (FEM).
The variational FFT approach is used with a crystal plasticity model for the cyclic behavior of the grains introduced through a FEM material subroutine, in particular an Abaqus umat. The framework also includes an alternative projection operator based on discrete differentiation to improve the microfield fidelity allowing to include second phases.
The accuracy and efficiency of the FFT framework for microstructure sensitive fatigue prediction are assessed by comparing with FEM.
The macroscopic cyclic response of a polycrystal obtained with both methods were indistinguishable, irrespective of the number of cycles.
The microscopic fields presented small differences that decrease when using the discrete projection operator, which indeed allowed simulating accurately microstructures containing very stiff particles.
Finally, the maximum differences in the fatigue life estimation from the microfields respect FEM were around 15% .
In summary, this framework allows predicting fatigue life with a similar accuracy than using FEM but strongly reducing the computational cost.
In this work we propose a stochastic model for estimating the occurrence of crack initiations on the surface of metallic specimens in fatigue problems that can be applied to a general class of geometries.
The stochastic model is based on spatial Poisson processes with intensity function that combines stress-life (S-N) curves with averaged effective stress, $σ_{\mathrm{eff}}^Δ (\mathbf{x})$, which is computed after solving numerically the linear elasticity equations on the specimen domains using finite element methods.
Here, $Δ$ is a parameter that characterizes the size of the neighbors covering the domain boundary.
The averaged effective stress, parameterized by $Δ$, maps the stress tensor to a scalar field upon the specimen domain.
Data from fatigue experiments on notched and unnotched sheet specimens of 75S-T6 aluminum alloys are used to calibrate the model parameters for the individual data sets and for their combination.
Bayesian and classical approaches are applied to estimate the survival-probability function for any specimen tested under a prescribed fatigue experimental setup.
Our proposed model can predict the initiation of cracks in specimens made from the same material with new geometries.
We present a generalised phase field-based formulation for predicting fatigue crack growth in metals.
The theoretical framework aims at covering a wide range of material behaviour.
Different fatigue degradation functions are considered and their influence is benchmarked against experiments.
The phase field constitutive theory accommodates the so-called AT1, AT2 and phase field-cohesive zone (PF-CZM) models.
In regards to material deformation, both non-linear kinematic and isotropic hardening are considered, as well as the combination of the two.
Moreover, a monolithic solution scheme based on quasi-Newton algorithms is presented and shown to significantly outperform staggered approaches.
The potential of the computational framework is demonstrated by investigating several 2D and 3D boundary value problems of particular interest.
Constitutive and numerical choices are compared and insight is gained into their differences and similarities.
The framework enables predicting fatigue crack growth in arbitrary geometries and for materials exhibiting complex (cyclic) deformation and damage responses.
The finite element code developed is made freely available at www.empaneda.com/codes.
When considering grinding of minerals, scaling effect induces competition between plastic deformation and fracture in brittle solids.
The competition can be sketched by a critical size of the material, which characterizes the ductile-brittle transition.
A first approach using Vickers indentation gives a good approximation of the critical size through an extrapolation from the macroscopic to the microscopic scales.
Nanoindentation tests confirm this experimental value.
According to the grain size compared to the indent size, it can reasonably be said that the mode of damage is deformation-induced intragranular microfracture.
This technique also enables to perform cyclic indentations to examine calcite fatigue resistance.
Repeated loadings with a nanoindenter on CaCO3 polycrystalline samples produce cumulative mechanical damage.
It is also shown that the transition between ductile and brittle behaviour depends on the number of indentation cycles.
The ductile domain can be reduced when the material is exposed to a fatigue process.
Dwell fatigue, the reduction in fatigue life experienced by titanium alloys due to holds at stresses as low as 60% of yield, has been implicated in several uncontained jet engine failures.
Dislocation slip has long been observed to be an intermittent, scale-bridging phenomenon, similar to that seen in earthquakes but at the nanoscale, leading to the speculation that large stress bursts might promote the initial opening of a crack.
Here we observe such stress bursts at the scale of individual grains in situ, using high energy X-ray diffraction microscopy in Ti-7Al-O alloys.
This shows that the detrimental effect of precipitation of ordered Ti_3Al is to increase the magnitude of rare pri<a> and bas<a> slip bursts associated with slip localisation.
In contrast, the addition of trace O interstitials is beneficial, reducing the magnitude of bas<a> slip bursts and increasing the homogeneity between basal and prismatic <a> slip.
This is further evidence that the formation of long paths for easy basal plane slip localisation should be avoided when engineering titanium alloys against dwell fatigue.
Thermal fatigue is a common failure mode in electronic solder joints, yet the role of microstructure is incompletely understood.
Here, we quantify the evolution of microstructure and damage in Sn-3Ag-0.5Cu joints throughout a ball grid array (BGA) package using EBSD mapping of localised subgrains, recrystallisation and heavily coarsened Ag3Sn.
We then interpret the results with a multi-scale modelling approach that links from a continuum model at the package/board scale through to a crystal plasticity finite element model at the microstructure scale.
We measure and explain the dependence of damage evolution on (i) the beta-Sn crystal orientation(s) in single and multigrain joints, and (ii) the coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) mismatch between tin grains in cyclic twinned multigrain joints.
We further explore the relative importance of the solder microstructure versus the joint location in the array.
The results provide a basis for designing optimum solder joint microstructures for thermal fatigue resistance.
A theoretical study based on dimensional analysis and fractal geometry of crack profiles is proposed to establish the relation between their fractal dimension D (1<D<2) and the parameters defining the fatigue crack propagation rate.
The exponent m of the Paris' law is found to be an increasing function of the fractal dimension of the crack profile, m=2D/(2-D).
This trend is confirmed by a quantitative analysis of fractographic images of Titanium alloys with different grain sizes (different roughness of crack profiles), by a new experimental test and by an indirect estimation of D from crack growth equations accounting from crack-size effects in Steel and Aluminum.
The present study can be considered as the first quantitative analysis of fractographic images aiming at relating the morphological features of cracks to their kinetics in fatigue.
This paper reports the fatigue and retention behavior for Al1-xBxN thin films, a member of the novel family of wurtzite ferroelectrics, with an emphasis on the role of capacitor architecture.
By modifying the capacitor architecture, and thus thermal and electrical boundary conditions, we create insight regarding the relative importance of intrinsic and extrinsic contributors to the degradation tendencies.
Our experiments suggest that bipolar cycling of metal (Pt/W)/Al0.93B0.07N/W/Al2O3 film stacks first induced wake-up, then a region of constant switchable polarization.
On additional cycling, the film leakage current increased, and then films underwent dielectric breakdown.
For unpatterned first generation Al0.93B0.07N films with 100 nm thick Pt top electrodes survive ~104 bipolar cycles, whereas films with 1000 nm W top electrodes survive ~10^5 cycles before thermal dielectric breakdown.
Sentaurus modeling was used to design an SU8 field plate which improved the performance to ~10^6 fatigue cycles.
It was found that the thermal failures during fatigue were not due to surface flashover events but were associated with hard breakdown events in the dielectric.
The films showed excellent retention of the stored polarization state.
As expected, data retention was slightly inferior in the opposite state (OS) measurements.
However, it is noted that even after 3.6x10^6 sec (1000 hr). at 200°C, the OS signal margin still exceeded 200 uC/cm2.
The predicted OS retention is 82% after 10 years baking at 200oC.
The corrosion-fatigue strength in 3% aqueous NaCl solution and the resistance against hot salt corrosion (HSC) of the fine-grained near-a alloy Ti-5Al-2V (Russian analog of Grade 9 titanium alloy with increased aluminum content) has been studied.
The properties of the Ti-5Al-2V alloy in the coarse-grained state, in the fine-grained after cold Rotary Swaging (RS), in partly recrystallized state, and in fully recrystallized one have been investigated.
The mechanical properties of the alloy were characterized using compression tests and microhardness measurements.
The effects of RS and of the annealing temperature and time on the character of corrosion destruction of the surface and on the composition of the products of the HSC were studied.
RS was shown to result in an increase in the depth of the intergranular corrosion defects while the recrystallization annealing promotes the increasing of the corrosion resistance of the Ti-5Al-2V titanium alloy.
The parameters of the Basquin equation for the corrosion-fatigue curves for the near-a Ti-5Al-2V alloy in the coarse-grained state, in the severely strained one, and after recrystallization annealing were determined for the first time.
An effect of nonmonotonous dependencies of the slopes of the corrosion-fatigue curves for the strained near-a Ti-5Al-2V alloy on the recrystallization annealing temperature has been observed.
There is a long-standing technological problem in which a stress dwell during cyclic loading at room temperature in Ti causes a significant fatigue life reduction.
It is thought that localised time dependent plasticity in soft grains favourably oriented for easy plastic slip leads to load shedding and an increase in stress within a neighbouring hard grain poorly oriented for easy slip.
Quantifying this time dependent plasticity process is key to understand the complex cold dwell fatigue problem.
Knowing the effect of operating temperature and oxygen content on cold dwell fatigue will be beneficial for future alloy design to address this problem.
In this work, synchrotron X-ray diffraction during stress relaxation experiments was used to characterise the time dependent plastic behaviour of two commercially pure titanium samples (grade 1 and grade 4) with different oxygen content at 4 different temperatures (room temperature, 75C, 145C and 250C).
Lattice strains were measured by tracking the diffraction peak shift from multiple crystallographic plane families (21 diffraction rings) as a function of their orientation with respect to the loading direction.
Critical resolved shear stress, activation energy and activation volume were established for both prismatic and basal slip as a function of temperature and oxygen content by fitting a crystal plasticity finite element model to the lattice strain relaxation responses measured along the loading axis for five strong reflections.
Higher strain rate sensitivity was found to lead to higher plasticity during cold dwell.
Crystal plasticity (CP) modeling is a vital tool for predicting the mechanical behavior of materials, but its calibration involves numerous (>8) constitutive parameters, often requiring time-consuming trial-and-error methods.
This paper proposes a robust calibration approach using Bayesian optimization (BO) to identify optimal CP model parameters under fatigue loading conditions.
Utilizing cyclic data from additively manufactured Hastelloy X specimens at 500 degree-F, the BO framework, integrated with a Gaussian process surrogate model, significantly reduces the number of required simulations.
A novel objective function is developed to match experimental stress-strain data across different strain amplitudes.
Results demonstrate that effective CP model calibration is achieved within 75 iterations, with as few as 50 initial simulations.
Sensitivity analysis reveals the influence of CP parameters at various loading points on the stress-strain curve.
The results show that the stress-strain response is predominantly controlled by parameters related to yield, with increased influence from backstress parameters during compressive loading.
In addition, the effect of introducing twins into the synthetic microstructure on fatigue behavior is studied, and a relationship between microstructural features and the fatigue indicator parameter is established.
Results show that larger diameter grains, which exhibit a higher Schmid factor and an average misorientation of approximately 42 degrees +/- 1.67 degree, are identified as probable sites for failure.
The proposed optimization framework can be applied to any material system or CP model, streamlining the calibration process and improving the predictive accuracy of such models.
Asteroid surfaces are subjected to mechanical weathering processes that result in the development and evolution of regolith.
Two proposed mechanisms--impact bombardment and thermal fatigue--have been proposed as viable and dominant weathering processes.
Previously, we compiled and estimated thermal inertias of several hundred asteroids (mostly in the main-belt) for which we determined dependencies on temperature, diameter, and rotation period.
In this work, we estimate grain sizes of asteroid regoliths from this large thermal inertia dataset using thermal conductivity models.
Following our previous work we perform multi-variate linear model fits to the grain size dataset and quantify its dependency on diameter and rotation period.
We find that the best-fit model fit indicates that asteroid grain sizes are inversely dependent on object size for <10 km asteroids and exhibits no relationship above this size cutoff.
Rotation period and grain size show a positive relationship when the rotation period is greater than ~5 hr, and an inverse relationship below this rotation period.
We conclude that both impact weathering and thermal fatigue are significant regolith evolution mechanisms.
Furthermore, we run post-hoc t-tests between spectral groups to identify compositional differences among our asteroid set.
Notably, suspected metal-rich, M-type and E-type asteroids have larger than expected grain sizes, and P-types have distinctly smaller grains than other groups
Vacancy engineering, the intentional control of atomic-scale vacancies in metals and alloys, is emerging as a powerful yet underexplored strategy for tailoring microstructures and optimizing performance across diverse applications.
By enabling excess vacancy populations through quenching, severe deformation, thermomechanical treatments, or additive manufacturing, new microstructures can be obtained that achieve unique combinations of strength, ductility, fatigue life, corrosion resistance, and conductivity.
Vacancies are distinct among lattice defects: they are non-conserved entities essential for solute diffusion, yet variably coupled to solutes, dislocations, and phase boundaries.
They can accelerate transformations such as nucleation and precipitation or retard kinetics when trapped in clusters, and their transient trapping and release can drive microstructural evolution across time and length scales.
This Review synthesizes recent advances in generating, modeling, and characterizing vacancies, highlighting their role in diffusion, precipitation, and phase stability.
Case studies in lightweight, high-temperature, fatigue-resistant, electrical, and biomedical materials demonstrate the broad potential of vacancy control.
We conclude by emphasizing the opportunity for the metallurgical community to fully exploit excess vacancies as controllable, design-relevant defects that enable new pathways for microstructure and property optimization in next-generation alloys.
The tribological performance and underlying deformation behavior of Ni55Ti45, Ni54Ti45Hf1 and Ni56Ti36Hf8 alloys were studied using rolling contact fatigue (RCF) testing and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
TEM results of the as-machined RCF rods, prepared using focus ion beam, revealed some damage very close to the surface.
TEM results after initial RCF cycling showed that additional damage was mainly confined to deformation bands that propagated several microns into the sample.
These bands formed via localized dislocation slip, possibly on multiple slip systems, within the B2 matrix and/or within transformed B19 prime martensite phase under repeated applied contact stress.
Further cycling of Ni55Ti45 and Ni54Ti45Hf1 led to shearing and dissolution of the strengthening precipitates within the deformation bands, followed by formation of nanocrystalline grains and finally amorphization of the remaining matrix material within the bands.
The Ni56Ti36Hf8 alloy exhibited a notable increase in RCF performance and a smaller damage zone (1.5 microns) compared to the Ni55Ti45 and Ni54Ti45Hf1 alloys (over 6 microns).
This was attributed to the low fraction of B2 matrix phase (less than or equal to 13 %) in the Ni56Ti36Hf8 alloy, leading to formation of narrow deformation bands (less than 11 nm) that were incapable of dissolving the much larger precipitates.
Instead, the deformation bands were restricted to narrow channels between the dense cubic NiTiHf and H-phase precipitates.
In contrast, broad deformation bands accompanied by shearing and eventual dissolution of the Ni4Ti3 precipitates were observed in the Ni55Ti45 and Ni54Ti45Hf1 alloys due to the high area fractions of B2 matrix phase (~49 %).
Ductile metals undergo a considerable amount of plastic deformation before failure.
Void nucleation, growth and coalescence is the mechanism of failure in such metals. α/β titanium alloys are ductile in nature and are widely used for their unique set of properties like specific strength, fracture toughness, corrosion resistance and resistance to fatigue failures.
Voids in these alloys were reported to nucleate on the phase boundaries between α and β phase.
Based on the findings of crystal plasticity finite element method (CPFEM) based investigation of the void growth at the interface of α and β phases [1], [2], a void nucleation, growth, and coalescence model has been formulated.
An existing single-phase crystal plasticity theory is extended to incorporate underlying physical mechanisms of deformation and failure in dual phase titanium alloys.
Effects of various factors (stress triaxiality, Lode parameter, deformation state (equivalent strain), and phase boundary inclination) on void nucleation, growth and coalescence are used to formulate the constitutive model while their interaction with a conventional crystal plasticity theory is established.
An extensive parametric assessment of the model is carried out to quantify and understand the effects of the material parameters on the overall material response.
Performance of the proposed model is then assessed and verified by comparing the results of the proposed model with the RVE study results.
Application of the constitutive model for utilisation in the design and optimisation of the forming process of α/β titanium alloy components is also demonstrated using experimental data.
A common technique used in factories to shape metal panels is shot peen forming.
The impacts between the hard steel shot and the softer metal of the panel cause localized plastic deformation used to improve the fatigue properties of the material's surface.
The residual stress distribution imparted by impacts also results in bending, which suggests that a torque is associated with it.
In this paper, we model shot peen forming as the application of spatially varying torques to a Kirchhoff plate, opting to use the language of thermoelasticity in order to introduce these torque distributions.
First, we derive the governing equations for the thermoelastic thin plate model and show that only a torque-type resultant of the temperature distribution shows up in the bending equation.
Next, to calibrate from the shot peen operation an empirical effective torque parameter used in the thermoelastic model, a simple and non-invasive test is devised.
This test relies only on measuring the maximum displacement of a uniformly shot peened plate as opposed to characterizing the residual stress distribution.
After discussing how to handle the unconventional fully-free boundary conditions germane for peened plates, we introduce an approach to solving the inverse problem whereby the peening distribution required to obtain a specified plate contour can be obtained.
Given the non-unique relationship between peening distributions and the displacement at discrete points, we explore a regularization of the inverse problem which gives rise to shot peen distributions that match the capabilities of equipment in the factory.
In order to validate our proposed model, an experiment with quantified uncertainty is designed and carried out which investigates the agreement between the predictions of the calibrated model and real shot peen forming operations.
Laser Powder Bed Fusion has become a widely adopted method for metal Additive Manufacturing (AM) due to its ability to mass produce complex parts with increased local control.
However, AM produced parts can be subject to undesirable porosity, negatively influencing the properties of printed components.
Thus, controlling porosity is integral for creating effective parts.
A precise understanding of the porosity distribution is crucial for accurately simulating potential fatigue and failure zones.
Previous research on generating synthetic porous microstructures have succeeded in generating parts with high density, isotropic porosity distributions but are often inapplicable to cases with sparser, boundary-dependent pore distributions.
Our work bridges this gap by providing a method that considers these constraints by deconstructing the generation problem into its constitutive parts.
A framework is introduced that combines Generative Adversarial Networks with Mallat Scattering Transform-based autocorrelation methods to construct novel realizations of the individual pore geometries and surface roughness, then stochastically reconstruct them to form realizations of a porous printed part.
The generated parts are compared to the existing experimental porosity distributions based on statistical and dimensional metrics, such as nearest neighbor distances, pore volumes, pore anisotropies and scattering transform based auto-correlations.
Functional connectivity estimates are highly sensitive to analysis choices and can be dominated by noise when the number of sampled time points is small relative to network dimensionality.
This issue is particularly acute in fMRI, where scan resolution is limited.
Because scan duration is constrained by practical factors (e.g., motion and fatigue), many datasets remain statistically underpowered for high-dimensional correlation estimation.
We introduce a framework that combines diffusion-based structural coarse-graining with spectral noise filtering to recover statistically reliable functional networks from temporally limited data.
The method reduces network dimensionality by grouping regions according to diffusion-defined communication.
This produces coarse-grained networks with dimensions compatible with available time points, enabling random matrix filtering of noise-dominated modes.
We benchmark three common FC pipelines against our approach.
We find that raw-signal correlations are strongly influenced by non-stationary fluctuations that can reduce apparent inter-subject variability under limited sampling conditions.
In contrast, our pipeline reveals a broader, multimodal landscape of inter-subject variability.
These large-scale organization patterns are largely obscured by standard pipelines.
Together, these results provide a practical route to reliable functional networks under realistic sampling constraints.
This strategy helps separate noise-driven artifacts from reproducible patterns of human brain variability.
There is a long standing technological problem in which a stress dwell during cyclic loading at room temperature in Ti causes a significant fatigue life reduction.
It is thought that localised time dependent plasticity in soft grains oriented for easy plastic slip leads to load shedding and an increase in stress within a neighbouring hard grain poorly oriented for easy slip.
Quantifying this time dependent plasticity process is key to successfully predicting the complex cold dwell fatigue problem.
This work uses a novel approach of in situ synchrotron X-ray diffraction during stress relaxation tests, to quantify the time dependent plasticity.
Measured lattice strains from multiple lattice families (21 diffraction rings) were compared with simulated lattice strains from crystal plasticity finite element (CPFE) simulations.
The prism slip parameters were found to show stronger strain rate sensitivity compared to basal slip, and this has a significant effect on stress redistribution to hard grain orientations during cold creep.
In this study, we employ high-energy X-ray characterization to examine the role of relatively large amounts of intragranular lattice misorientation -- present after many thermomechanical processes -- on the micromechanical response of Al-7085 with a modified T7452 temper.
We utilize near-field high energy X-ray diffraction microscopy (HEDM) to measure three-dimensional (3D) spatial orientation fields, facilitated by a novel method that utilizes grain orientation envelopes measured using far-field HEDM to enable reconstruction of grains with intragranular orientation spreads greater than 20°.
We then assess the consequences of consideration of intragranular orientation fields on the predicted deformation response of the sample through 3D micromechanical simulations of the forged Al-7085.
We construct two virtual polycrystalline specimens for use in simulations: the first a faithful representation of the HEDM reconstruction, the second a microstructure with no intragranular misorientation (i.e., grain-averaged orientations).
We find significant differences in the predicted deformation mechanism activation, distribution of stress, and distribution of plastic strain between simulations containing intragranular misorientation and those with grain-averaged orientations, indicating the necessity for consideration of intragranular orientation fields for accurate predictions.
Further, the influence of elastic anisotropy is discussed, along with the effects of intragranular misorientation on fatigue life through the calculation and analysis of fatigue indicator parameters.
Dark Field X-ray Microscopy (DFXM) has advanced 3D non-destructive, high-resolution imaging of strain and orientation in crystalline materials, enabling the study of embedded structures in bulk.
However, the photon-intensive nature of monochromatic DFXM limits its applicability to highly deformed or weakly crystalline structures and constrains time-resolved studies in industrially relevant materials.
We present pink-beam DFXM (\pDFXM) at the ID03 beamline of ESRF, achieving a 27-fold increase in diffracted intensity while maintaining 100 nm spatial resolution.
We validate \pDFXM{} by imaging a partially recrystallized aluminum grain, confirming sufficient angular resolution for microstructure mapping.
The increased flux significantly enhances the diffracted signal, enabling the resolution of subgrain structures.
Additionally, we image a highly deformed ferritic iron grain, previously inaccessible in monochromatic mode without focusing optics.
Beyond static imaging, \pDFXM{} enables real-time tracking of grain growth during annealing, achieving hundred-millisecond temporal resolution.
By combining high photon flux with non-destructive, high-resolution 3D mapping, \pDFXM{} expands diffraction-contrast imaging to poorly diffracting crystals, unlocking new opportunities for studying grain growth, fatigue, and corrosion in bulk materials.
The ferroelectric material usually exhibits temperature dependent spontaneous polarization, known as pyroelectricity, which can be used to directly convert thermal energy to electricity from ambient low-grade waste heat. When utilizing the structural phase transformations of the material, the conversion capability can be magnified, consequently the device performance can be strongly boosted by orders of magnitude.
However, common ferroelectric oxides suffer the mechanical fatigue and functional degradation over cyclic phase transformations, hindering widespread applications of the energy conversion device.
In this paper, we investigate the mechanical and functional reversibility of the material by lattice tuning and grain coarsening.
We discover the lead-free compound Ba(Ce$_{0.005}$Zr$_{0.005}$)Ti$_{0.99}$O3-0.10(Ba$_{0.7}$Ca$_{0.3}$)TiO$_3$ (BCZT-0.10BCT) satisfying the compatibility condition among all present phases by its lattice parameters, making the phase transformations highly reversible.
We demonstrated that the energy conversion device with the equiaxial coarse grains exhibits exceptional fatigue-resistance, with stable pyroelectric current output at 4$μ$A/cm$^2$ over 3,000 energy conversion cycles.
Our work opens a new way to fabricate high-performance material that advances the pyroelectric energy conversion for practical application in engineering.
We investigate the scatter in the cycles to crack initiation for conventionally cast specimens of the superalloy RENE 80 in total strain controlled low cycle fatigue (LCF) tests at 850°C.
The grains at the location of crack initiation are investigated using electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) measurements with scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
This results in determination of maximal Schmid factors for the slip system that lead to the initiation of the LCF surface crack.
It is shown using stress - life and strain - life models, that taking into account the Schmid factor considerable reduces the scatter in LCF life prediction.
This is used to propose a probabilistic model for LCF life based on random grain orientations.
Using Mote Carlo simulation, we determine the probability distribution for the maximal Schmid factor in an uniaxial stress state under isotropic random orientations of the grain.
This is used to calculate failure probabilities under the above mentioned model and to compare them with experimental data.
Based on extreme value statistics, it is discussed whether a high maximal Schmid factor can be considered as causally related to an early initiation of an LCF crack and we present some rather surprising experimental evidence.
In the last section conclusions are formulated and future directions of research are outlined.
Materials performance is deeply linked to their microstructures, which govern key properties such as strength, durability, and fatigue resistance.
EBSD is a major technique for characterizing these microstructures, but acquiring large and statistically representative EBSD maps remains slow, costly, and often limited to small regions.
In this work, we introduce InfinityEBSD, a diffusion-based method for generating monophase realistic EBSD maps of arbitrary size, conditioned on physically meaningful microstructural metrics.
This approach supports two primary use cases: extending small experimental EBSD maps to arbitrary sizes, and generating entirely new maps directly from statistical descriptors, without any input map.
Conditioning is achieved through eight microstructural descriptors, including grain size, grain perimeter, grain inertia ratio, coordination number and disorientation angle distribution, allowing the model to generate maps that are both visually realistic and physically interpretable.
A patch-wise geometric extension strategy ensures spatial continuity across grains, enabling the model to produce large-scale EBSD maps while maintaining coherent grain boundaries and orientation transitions.
The generated maps can also be exported as valid Channel Text Files (CTF) for immediate post-processing and analysis in software such as MTEX or simulation environments like DIGIMU.
We quantitatively validate our results by comparing distributions of the guiding metrics before and after generation, showing that the model respects the statistical targets while introducing morphological diversity.
InfinityEBSD demonstrates that diffusion models, guided by physical metrics, can bridge the gap between synthetic and realistic materials representation, paving the way for future developments such as 3D realistic microstructure generation from 2D data.
TiNiPd based shape memory alloys (SMAs) share similar microstructural features as TiNiCu-based SMAs known for their exceptional resistance to functional fatigue due to their high crystallographic compatibility, nanometer sized grains and coherent precipitates, making them an ideal system to further explore the critical factors influencing cyclic stability.
In this study, we investigate the effect of heat treatments (500 °C, 600 °C, 700 °C and 800 °C) on the cyclic stability and microstructure of free-standing, magnetron-sputtered Ti$_{53.6}$Ni$_{35.2}$Pd$_{11.2}$ films.
All heat treatments promote the formation of Ti$_2$Pd(Ni) precipitates and result in a similar grain size (~1-4 $μ$m).
Lower heat treatment temperatures improve the cyclic stability of the stress induced transformation while reducing transformation temperatures and latent heat. Temperature dependent X-ray diffraction reveals a complex microstructure for the martensite phase with Ti$_2$Pd(Ni), Ti$_2$Ni(Pd), TiNiPd(B2), B19/B19$'$ and R-phase.
The thermal phase transition changes from a distinct 1st order to a 2nd order like transition, accompanied by increasing amount of remanent austenite and R-phase, with nearly no change for the sample heat treated at 500 °C.
In situ stress dependent X-ray diffraction demonstrates a significant difference between the temperature and stress induced phase transformation for this heat treatment.
The observed semi crystalline microstructure, featuring nano domains of Ti$_2$Pd(Ni) precipitates in the sample heat-treated at 500 °C, leads to a mixture of long range martensitic and strain glass transition.
This study highlights the impact of heat treatment and microstructure on the phase transformation behavior and functional fatigue in Ti-rich TiNiPd alloys.
Considering the sensitivity of both fatigue strength and corrosion rate to the surface characteristics, apposite surface treatments could address the related challenges for biodegradable magnesium-based materials.
Herein, we treated the surface of a biocompatible magnesium alloy by a low cost and versatile severe plastic deformation technique, severe shot peening, to evaluate the potential of surface grain refinement to enhance functionality in biological environment.
The evolution of surface grain structure and surface morphology were investigated using optical as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy.
Surface roughness, wettability and chemical composition, as well as in depth-microhardness and residual stress distribution, and corrosion resistance were investigated.
Successive light surface grinding was used after severe shot peening to eliminate the effect of surface roughness and separately investigate the influence of grain refinement alone.
Cytocompatibility tests with osteoblasts (or bone forming cells) were performed using sample extracts.
Results revealed for the first time that severe shot peening can significantly enhance mechanical properties without causing adverse effects to the growth of surrounding osteoblasts.
The corrosion behavior, on the other hand, was not improved by severe shot peening; nevertheless, slight grinding of the rough surface layer with a high density of crystallographic lattice defects, without removing the entire nanocrystallized layer, provided a good potential for improving corrosion characteristics after severe shot peening and thus, this method should be studied for a wide range of orthopedic applications in which biodegradable magnesium is used.
Here, we optimized the annealing temperature of HZO/TiN thin film heterostructure via multiscale analysis of remnant polarization, crystallographic phase, minimum ferroelectric domain size, and average grain size.
We found that the remnant polarization was closely related to the relative amount of the orthorhombic phase whereas the minimum domain size was to the relative amount of the monoclinic phase.
The minimum domain size was obtained at the annealing temperature of 500$^\cird$C while the optimum remnant polarization and capacitance at the annealing temperature of 600$^\circ$C.
We conclude that the minimum domain size is more important than the sheer magnitude of remnant polarization considering the retention and fatigue of switchable polarization in nanoscale ferroelectric devices.
Our results are expected to contribute to the development of ultra-low-power logic transistors and next-generation non-volatile memory devices.
We have investigated a water-stable sol-gel method based on ethylene glycol as a solvent and bridging ligand for the synthesis of ferroelectric lead zirconate titanate in bulk and thin film forms.
This method offers lower toxicity of the solvent, higher stability towards atmospheric moisture and a simplified synthetic procedure compared to traditional sol-gel methods.
Ceramic pellets of Nb-doped lead zirconate titanate (PNZT) in the rhombohedral phase were produced with high density and good piezoelectric properties, comparable to those reported in the literature and those found in commercial piezoelectric elements.
In addition, a nine-layer thin film stack was fabricated from the same sol by spin coating onto platinized silicon substrates.
The films were crack-free and showed a dense perovskite grain structure with a weak (111) orientation.
Piezoelectric measurements of the film showed a piezoelectric coefficient comparable to literature values and good stability towards fatigue.
The mechanical, structural and functional properties of crystals are determined by their defects and the distribution of stresses surrounding these defects has broad implications for the understanding of transport phenomena.
When the defect density rises to levels routinely found in real-world materials, transport is governed by local stresses that are predominantly nonlinear.
Such stress fields however, cannot be measured using conventional bulk and local measurement techniques.
Here, we report direct and spatially resolved experimental measurements of the nonlinear stresses surrounding colloidal crystalline defect cores, and show that the stresses at vacancy cores generate attractive interactions between them.
We also directly visualize the softening of crystalline regions surrounding dislocation cores, and find that stress fluctuations in quiescent polycrystals are uniformly distributed rather than localized at grain boundaries, as is the case in strained atomic polycrystals.
Nonlinear stress measurements have important implications for strain hardening, yield, and fatigue.
Bottom-up models of functionally relevant patterns of neural activity provide an explicit link between neuronal dynamics and computation.
A prime example of functional activity pattern is hippocampal replay, which is critical for memory consolidation.
The switchings between replay events and a low-activity state in neural recordings suggests metastable neural circuit dynamics.
As metastability has been attributed to noise and/or slow fatigue mechanisms, we propose a concise mesoscopic model which accounts for both.
Crucially, our model is bottom-up: it is analytically derived from the dynamics of finite-size networks of Linear-Nonlinear Poisson neurons with short-term synaptic depression.
As such, noise is explicitly linked to spike noise and network size, and fatigue is explicitly linked to synaptic dynamics.
To derive the mesosocpic model, we first consider a homogeneous spiking neural network and follow the temporal coarse-graining approach of Gillespie ("chemical Langevin equation"), which can be naturally interpreted as a stochastic neural mass model.
The Langevin equation is computationally inexpensive to simulate and enables a thorough study of metastable dynamics in classical setups (population spikes and Up-Down states dynamics) by means of phase-plane analysis.
This stochastic neural mass model is the basic component of our mesoscopic model for replay.
We show that our model faithfully captures the stochastic nature of individual replayed trajectories.
Moreover, compared to the deterministic Romani-Tsodyks model of place cell dynamics, it exhibits a higher level of variability in terms of content, direction and timing of replay events, compatible with biological evidence and could be functionally desirable.
This variability is the product of a new dynamical regime where metastability emerges from a complex interplay between finite-size fluctuations and local fatigue.
Perovskite-organic tandem solar cells (P-O TSCs) hold great promise for next-generation thin-film photovoltaics, with steadily improving power conversion efficiency (PCE).
However, the development of optimal interconnecting layers (ICLs) remains one major challenge for further efficiency gains, and progress in understanding the improved long-term stability of P-O tandem configuration has been lagging.
In this study, we experimentally investigate the enhanced stability of p-i-n P-O TSCs employing a simplified C60/atomic-layer-deposition (ALD) SnOx/PEDOT: PSS ICL without an additional charge recombination layer (CRL), which achieve an averaged efficiency of 25.12% and a hero efficiency of 25.5%.
Our finding discovers that the recrystallization of C60, a widely used electron transport layer in perovskite photovoltaics, leads to the formation of grain boundaries during operation, which act as migration channels for the interdiffusion of halide and Ag ions.
Critically, we demonstrate for the first time that the tandem device architecture, incorporating organic semiconductor layers, effectively suppresses the bi-directional ion diffusion and mitigates electrode corrosion.
Thus, the P-O TSC establishes a mutual protection system: the organic layers stabilize the perovskite sub-cell by suppressing ion diffusion-induced degradation, and the perovskite layer shields the organic sub-cell from spectrally induced degradation.
The simultaneous synergistic protection mechanism enables P-O TSCs to achieve exceptional long-term operational stability, retaining over 91% of their initial efficiency after 1000 hours of continuous metal-halide lamp illumination, and to exhibit minimal fatigue after 86 cycles (2067 hours) of long-term diurnal (12/12-hour) testing.
These results demonstrate that tandem cells significantly outperform their single-junction counterparts in both efficiency and stability.
In this study, we report the effect of cerium (Ce) addition on the tension-compression yield and cyclic asymmetry in commercially pure magnesium (Cp-Mg) and Mg-Al alloy at room temperature (RT).
The investigated materials Cp-Mg, Mg-0.5Ce, and Mg-3Al-0.5Ce were extruded at 400°C, followed by annealing at the same temperature for one hour.
Incorporating 0.5wt.% Ce in pure Mg results in the weakening of its basal texture, uniform distribution of Mg12Ce precipitates, and grain size refinement.
Consequently, the tensile yield strength and ductility of pure Mg increased, and tension-compression yield asymmetry was eliminated.
However, the presence of 3wt.% Al in Mg suppresses the beneficial effects of Ce addition.
The formation of complex precipitates, such as Mg-Al-Ce and Al11Ce3, limits the weakening of the basal texture, reduction in grain size, improvement in ductility, and elimination of tension-compression yield asymmetry observed in Mg-0.5Ce.
Nevertheless, Al contributes to the solid solution strengthening in Mg and possibly lowers the critical stress required for twinning in Mg, resulting in the highest tensile strength of Mg-3Al-0.5Ce.
Finally, the addition of 0.5wt.% Ce enhances the cyclic strength, stabilizes cyclic stress response, reduces inelastic strain, and minimizes cyclic asymmetry in both pure Mg and Mg-Al alloy while maintaining a comparable fatigue life.
Overall, Ce addition positively impacts the microstructure and mechanical behavior of pure Mg and its investigated alloy.
The reasons for these improvements are discussed in detail.
This study demonstrates the effectiveness of AFE-PUND, a revisited Positive Up Negative Down (PUND) protocol for characterizing antiferroelectric (AFE) materials, in analyzing $ZrO_2$ films across different thicknesses, revealing key trends.
The proposed AFE-PUND method enables the isolation of switching currents from non-switching contributions, allowing precise extraction of remanent polarization and coercive field from hysteresis loops.
The remanent polarization increases with film thickness, reflecting enhanced domain stability, while endurance cycles highlight the wake-up effect and its eventual degradation due to fatigue in thicker films.
Similarly, coercive fields decrease with thickness, indicating reduced switching barriers and a clearer transition between tetragonal and orthorhombic phases.
The method provides valuable insights into micro-structural influences, such as defect accumulation, grain size, and domain wall pinning, which critically affect device performance.
AFE-PUND thus establishes itself as an essential tool for advancing the understanding and optimization of antiferroelectric materials.
High-entropy alloys (HEAs) are materials that consist of equimolar or near-equimolar multiple principal components but tend to form single phases, which is a new research topic in the field of metallurgy, have attracted extensive attention in the past decade.
The HEAs families contain the face-centered-cubic (fcc), body-centered-cubic (bcc), and hexagonal-close-packed (hcp)-structured HEAs.
On one hand, mechanical properties, e.g. hardness, strength, ductility, fatigue, and elastic moduli, are essential for practical applications of HEAs.
Scientists have explored in this direction since the advent of HEAs.
On the other hand, the pursuit of high strength and good plasticity is the critical research issue of materials.
Hence, strengthening of HEAs is a crucial issue.
Recently, many articles are focusing on the strengthening strategies of HEAs[1-14].
In this chapter, we reviewed the recent work on the room-temperature elastic properties and mechanical behavior of HEAs, including the mechanisms behind the plastic deformation of HEAs at both low and high temperatures.
Furthermore, the present work examined the strengthening strategies of HEAs, e.g. strain hardening, grain-boundary strengthening, solid-solution strengthening, and particle strengthening.
The fatigue, creep, and fracture properties were briefly introduced.
Lastly, the future scientific issues and challenges of HEAs were discussed.
Ni-Mn-based metamagnetic shape-memory alloys exhibit a giant thermal response to magnetic fields and uniaxial stress which can be utilized in single caloric or multicaloric cooling concepts for energy-efficient and sustainable refrigeration.
However, during cyclic operation these alloys suffer from structural and functional fatigue as a result of their high intrinsic brittleness.
Here, we present based on Fe-doping of Ni-Mn-In a microstructure design strategy which simultaneously improves cyclic stability and maintains the excellent magnetocaloric and elastocaloric properties.
Our results reveal that precipitation of a strongly Fe-enriched and In-depleted coherent secondary gamma-phase at grain boundaries can ensure excellent mechanical stability by hindering intergranular fracture during cyclic loading.
In this way, a large elastocaloric effect of -4.5 K was achieved for more than 16000 cycles without structural or functional degradation, which corresponds to an increase of the cyclic stability by more than three orders of magnitude as compared to single-phase Ni-Mn-In-(Fe).
In addition, we demonstrate that the large magnetocaloric effect of single-phase Ni-Mn-In-(Fe) can be preserved in the dual-phase material when the secondary gamma-phase is exclusively formed at grain boundaries as the martensitic transformation within the Heusler matrix is barely affected.
This way, an adiabatic temperature change of -3 K and an isothermal entropy change of 15 $Jkg^{-1}K^{-1}$ was obtained in 2 T for dual-phase Ni-Mn-In-Fe.
We expect that this concept can be applied to other single caloric and mutlicaloric materials, therewith paving the way for solid-state caloric cooling applications.
Real-time Bidding (RTB) advertisers wish to \textit{know in advance} the expected cost and yield of ad campaigns to avoid trial-and-error expenses.
However, Campaign Performance Forecasting (CPF), a sequence modeling task involving tens of thousands of ad auctions, poses challenges of evolving user interest, auction representation, and long context, making coarse-grained and static-modeling methods sub-optimal. We propose \textit{AdVance}, a time-aware framework that integrates local auction-level and global campaign-level modeling.
User preference and fatigue are disentangled using a time-positioned sequence of clicked items and a concise vector of all displayed items.
Cross-attention, conditioned on the fatigue vector, captures the dynamics of user interest toward each candidate ad.
Bidders compete with each other, presenting a complete graph similar to the self-attention mechanism.
Hence, we employ a Transformer Encoder to compress each auction into embedding by solving auxiliary tasks.
These sequential embeddings are then summarized by a conditional state space model (SSM) to comprehend long-range dependencies while maintaining global linear complexity.
Considering the irregular time intervals between auctions, we make SSM's parameters dependent on the current auction embedding and the time interval. We further condition SSM's global predictions on the accumulation of local results.
Extensive evaluations and ablation studies demonstrate its superiority over state-of-the-art methods.
AdVance has been deployed on the Tencent Advertising platform, and A/B tests show a remarkable 4.5\% uplift in Average Revenue per User (ARPU).
The mechanical properties and long-term structural reliability of crystalline materials are strongly influenced by microstructural features such as grain size, morphology, and crystallographic texture.
These characteristics not only determine the initial mechanical behavior but also govern the progression of degradation mechanisms, such as strain localization, fatigue damage, and microcrack initiation under service conditions.
Variability in these microstructural attributes, introduced during manufacturing or evolving through in-service degradation, leads to uncertainty in material performance.
Therefore, understanding and quantifying microstructure-sensitive plastic deformation is critical for assessing degradation risk in high-value mechanical systems.
This study presents a first-of-its-kind machine learning-driven framework that couples high-fidelity crystal plasticity finite element (CPFE) simulations with data-driven surrogate modeling to accelerate degradation-aware uncertainty quantification in welded structural alloys.
Specifically, the impact of crystallographic texture variability in 316L stainless steel weldments, characterized via high-throughput electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD), is examined through CPFE simulations on calibrated representative volume elements (RVEs).
A polynomial chaos expansion-based surrogate model is then trained to efficiently emulate the CPFE response using only 200 simulations, reducing computational cost by several orders of magnitude compared to conventional Monte Carlo analysis.
The surrogate enables rapid quantification of uncertainty in stress-strain behavior and identifies texture components such as Cube and Goss as key drivers of degradation-relevant plastic response.
Rapid cooling rates and stochastic interactions between the heat source and feedstock in additive manufacturing (AM) result in strong anisotropy and process-induced defects deteriorating the tensile ductility and fatigue resistance of printed parts.
We show that by deliberately introducing a high density of lack of fusion (LoF) defects, a processing regime that has been avoided so far, followed by pressure assisted heat treatment, we can print Ti-6Al-4V with reduced texture and exceptional properties surpassing that of wrought, cast, forged, annealed, and solution-treated and aged counterparts.
Such improvement is achieved through the formation of low aspect ratio α-grains around LoF defects upon healing, surrounded by α-laths.
This occurrence is attributed to surface energy reduction and recrystallization events taking place during healing of LoF defects.
Our approach to design duplex microstructures is applicable to a wide range of AM processes and alloys and can be used in the design of damage tolerant microstructures.
Two phase titanium alloys are important for high performance engineering components, such as aeroengine discs.
The microstructures of these alloys are tailored during thermomechanical processing to precisely control phase factions, morphology and crystallographic orientations.
In bimodal two phase (α + β) Ti-6Al-2Sn-4Zr-2Mo (Ti-6242) alloys there are often three microstructural lengthscales to consider: large (~10 μm) equiaxed primary α; >200 nm thick plate α with a basketweave morphology; and very fine scaled (>50 nm plate thickness) secondary α that grows between the larger α plates surrounded by retained β.
In this work, we utilise high spatial resolution transmission Kikuchi diffraction (TKD, also known as transmission based electron backscatter diffraction, t-EBSD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) based forward scattering electron imaging to resolve the structures and orientations of basketweave and secondary α in Ti-6242.
We analyse the α variants formed within one prior β grain, and test whether existing theories of habit planes of the phase transformation are upheld.
Our analysis is important in understanding both the thermomechanical processing strategy of new bimodal two-phase titanium alloys, as well the ultimate performance of these alloys in complex loading regimes such as dwell fatigue.
Our paper champions the significant increase in spatial resolution afforded using transmission techniques, combined with the ease of SEM based analysis using conventional electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) systems and forescatter detector (FSD) imaging, to study the nanostructure of real-world engineering alloys.
Aging and chronic conditions affect older adults' daily lives, making the early detection of developing health issues crucial. Weakness, which is common across many conditions, can subtly alter physical movements and daily activities.
However, these behavioral changes can be difficult to detect because they are gradual and often masked by natural day-to-day variability.
To isolate the behavioral phenotype of weakness while controlling for confounding factors, this study simulates physical weakness in healthy adults through exercise-induced fatigue, providing interpretable insights into potential behavioral indicators for long-term monitoring.
A non-intrusive camera sensor is used to monitor individuals' daily sitting and relaxing activities over multiple days, allowing us to observe behavioral changes before and after simulated weakness.
The system captures fine-grained features related to body motion, inactivity, and environmental context in real time while prioritizing privacy.
A Bayesian Network models the relationships among activities, contextual factors, and behavioral indicators.
Fine-grained features, including non-dominant upper-body motion speed and scale, together with inactivity distribution, are most effective when used with a 300-second window.
Personalized models achieve 0.97 accuracy at distinguishing simulated weak days from normal days, and no universal set of optimal features or activities is observed across participants.
The proliferation of smart home devices has increased the complexity of controlling and managing them, leading to user fatigue.
In this context, large language models (LLMs) offer a promising solution by enabling natural-language interfaces for Internet of Things (IoT) control.
However, existing LLM-based approaches suffer from unreliable and inefficient device control due to the non-deterministic nature of LLMs, high inference latency and cost, and limited personalization.
To address these challenges, we present IoTGPT, an LLM-based smart home agent designed to execute IoT commands in a reliable, efficient, and personalized manner.
Inspired by how humans manage complex tasks, IoTGPT decomposes user instructions into subtasks and memorizes them.
By reusing learned subtasks, subsequent instructions can be processed more efficiently with fewer LLM calls, improving reliability and reducing both latency and cost.
IoTGPT also supports fine-grained personalization by adapting individual subtasks to user preferences.
Our evaluation demonstrates that IoTGPT outperforms baselines in accuracy, latency/cost, and personalization, while reducing user workload.
Modeling biological rhythms helps understand the complex principles behind the physical and psychological abnormalities of human bodies, to plan life schedules, and avoid persisting fatigue and mood and sleep alterations due to the desynchronization of those rhythms.
The first step in modeling biological rhythms is to identify their characteristics, such as cyclic periods, phase, and amplitude.
However, human rhythms are susceptible to external events, which cause irregular fluctuations in waveforms and affect the characterization of each rhythm.
In this paper, we present our exploratory work towards developing a computational framework for automated discovery and modeling of human rhythms.
We first identify cyclic periods in time series data using three different methods and test their performance on both synthetic data and real fine-grained biological data.
We observe consistent periods are detected by all three methods.
We then model inner cycles within each period through identifying change points to observe fluctuations in biological data that may inform the impact of external events on human rhythms.
The results provide initial insights into the design of a computational framework for discovering and modeling human rhythms.
Security Operations Centers (SOCs) are overwhelmed by tens of thousands of daily alerts, with only a small fraction corresponding to genuine attacks.
This overload creates alert fatigue, leading to overlooked threats and analyst burnout.
Classical detection pipelines are brittle and context-poor, while recent LLM-based approaches typically rely on a single model to interpret logs, retrieve context, and adjudicate alerts end-to-end -- an approach that struggles with noisy enterprise data and offers limited transparency.
We propose CORTEX, a multi-agent LLM architecture for high-stakes alert triage in which specialized agents collaborate over real evidence: a behavior-analysis agent inspects activity sequences, evidence-gathering agents query external systems, and a reasoning agent synthesizes findings into an auditable decision.
To support training and evaluation, we release a dataset of fine-grained SOC investigations from production environments, capturing step-by-step analyst actions and linked tool outputs.
Across diverse enterprise scenarios, CORTEX substantially reduces false positives and improves investigation quality over state-of-the-art single-agent LLMs.
Self-annotation is the gold standard for collecting affective state labels in affective computing.
Existing methods typically rely on full annotation, requiring users to continuously label affective states across entire sessions.
While this process yields fine-grained data, it is time-consuming, cognitively demanding, and prone to fatigue and errors.
To address these issues, we present PREFAB, a low-budget retrospective self-annotation method that targets affective inflection regions rather than full annotation.
Grounded in the peak-end rule and ordinal representations of emotion, PREFAB employs a preference-learning model to detect relative affective changes, directing annotators to label only selected segments while interpolating the remainder of the stimulus.
We further introduce a preview mechanism that provides brief contextual cues to assist annotation.
We evaluate PREFAB through a technical performance study and a 25-participant user study.
Results show that PREFAB outperforms baselines in modeling affective inflections while mitigating workload (and conditionally mitigating temporal burden).
Importantly PREFAB improves annotator confidence without degrading annotation quality.
Despite rapid advancements in TTS models, a consistent and robust human evaluation framework is still lacking.
For example, MOS tests fail to differentiate between similar models, and CMOS's pairwise comparisons are time-intensive.
The MUSHRA test is a promising alternative for evaluating multiple TTS systems simultaneously, but in this work we show that its reliance on matching human reference speech unduly penalises the scores of modern TTS systems that can exceed human speech quality.
More specifically, we conduct a comprehensive assessment of the MUSHRA test, focusing on its sensitivity to factors such as rater variability, listener fatigue, and reference bias.
Based on our extensive evaluation involving 492 human listeners across Hindi and Tamil we identify two primary shortcomings: (i) reference-matching bias, where raters are unduly influenced by the human reference, and (ii) judgement ambiguity, arising from a lack of clear fine-grained guidelines.
To address these issues, we propose two refined variants of the MUSHRA test.
The first variant enables fairer ratings for synthesized samples that surpass human reference quality.
The second variant reduces ambiguity, as indicated by the relatively lower variance across raters.
By combining these approaches, we achieve both more reliable and more fine-grained assessments.
We also release MANGO, a massive dataset of 246,000 human ratings, the first-of-its-kind collection for Indian languages, aiding in analyzing human preferences and developing automatic metrics for evaluating TTS systems.
Traditional image annotation tasks rely heavily on human effort for object selection and label assignment, making the process time-consuming and prone to decreased efficiency as annotators experience fatigue after extensive work.
This paper introduces a novel framework that leverages the visual understanding capabilities of large multimodal models (LMMs), particularly GPT, to assist annotation workflows.
In our proposed approach, human annotators focus on selecting objects via bounding boxes, while the LMM autonomously generates relevant labels.
This human-AI collaborative framework enhances annotation efficiency by reducing the cognitive and time burden on human annotators.
By analyzing the system's performance across various types of annotation tasks, we demonstrate its ability to generalize to tasks such as object recognition, scene description, and fine-grained categorization.
Our proposed framework highlights the potential of this approach to redefine annotation workflows, offering a scalable and efficient solution for large-scale data labeling in computer vision.
Finally, we discuss how integrating LMMs into the annotation pipeline can advance bidirectional human-AI alignment, as well as the challenges of alleviating the "endless annotation" burden in the face of information overload by shifting some of the work to AI.
Personality assessment in career guidance and personnel selection traditionally relies on self-report questionnaires, which are susceptible to response bias, fatigue, and intentional distortion.
Game-based assessment offers a promising alternative by capturing implicit behavioral signals during gameplay.
This study proposes a multi-genre serious-game framework combined with machine-learning techniques to predict suitability for software development roles.
Developer-relevant personality and behavioral traits were identified through a systematic literature review and an empirical study of professional software engineers.
A custom mobile game was designed to elicit behaviors related to problem solving, planning, adaptability, persistence, time management, and information seeking.
Fine-grained gameplay event data were collected and analyzed using a two-phase modeling strategy where suitability was predicted exclusively from gameplay-derived behavioral features.
Results show that our model achieved up to 97% precision and 94% accuracy.
Behavioral analysis revealed that proper candidates exhibited distinct gameplay patterns, such as more wins in puzzle-based games, more side challenges, navigating menus more frequently, and exhibiting fewer pauses, retries, and surrender actions.
These findings demonstrate that implicit behavioral traces captured during gameplay is promising in predicting software-development suitability without explicit personality testing, supporting serious games as a scalable, engaging, and less biased alternative for career assessment.
Effectively learning the temporal dynamics in electroencephalogram (EEG) signals is challenging yet essential for decoding brain activities using brain-computer interfaces (BCIs).
Although Transformers are popular for their long-term sequential learning ability in the BCI field, most methods combining Transformers with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) fail to capture the coarse-to-fine temporal dynamics of EEG signals.
To overcome this limitation, we introduce EEG-Deformer, which incorporates two main novel components into a CNN-Transformer: (1) a Hierarchical Coarse-to-Fine Transformer (HCT) block that integrates a Fine-grained Temporal Learning (FTL) branch into Transformers, effectively discerning coarse-to-fine temporal patterns; and (2) a Dense Information Purification (DIP) module, which utilizes multi-level, purified temporal information to enhance decoding accuracy.
Comprehensive experiments on three representative cognitive tasks-cognitive attention, driving fatigue, and mental workload detection-consistently confirm the generalizability of our proposed EEG-Deformer, demonstrating that it either outperforms or performs comparably to existing state-of-the-art methods.
Visualization results show that EEG-Deformer learns from neurophysiologically meaningful brain regions for the corresponding cognitive tasks.
The source code can be found at https://github.com/yi-ding-cs/EEG-Deformer.
Learning from Demonstration (LfD) has been established as the dominant paradigm for efficiently transferring skills from human teachers to robots.
In this context, the Federated Learning (FL) conceptualization has very recently been introduced for developing large-scale human-robot collaborative environments, targeting to robustly address, among others, the critical challenges of multi-agent learning and long-term autonomy.
In the current work, the latter scheme is further extended and enhanced, by designing and integrating a novel user profile formulation for providing a fine-grained representation of the exhibited human behavior, adopting a Deep Learning (DL)-based formalism.
In particular, a hierarchically organized set of key information sources is considered, including: a) User attributes (e.g. demographic, anthropomorphic, educational, etc.), b) User state (e.g. fatigue detection, stress detection, emotion recognition, etc.) and c) Psychophysiological measurements (e.g. gaze, electrodermal activity, heart rate, etc.) related data.
Then, a combination of Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and stacked autoencoders, with appropriately defined neural network architectures, is employed for the modelling step.
The overall designed scheme enables both short- and long-term analysis/interpretation of the human behavior (as observed during the feedback capturing sessions), so as to adaptively adjust the importance of the collected feedback samples when aggregating information originating from the same and different human teachers, respectively.
Remote photoplethysmography (rPPG) is an emerging contactless physiological sensing technique that leverages subtle color variations in facial videos to estimate vital signs such as heart rate and respiratory rate.
This non-invasive method has gained traction across diverse domains, including telemedicine, affective computing, driver fatigue detection, and health monitoring, owing to its scalability and convenience.
Despite significant progress in remote physiological signal measurement, a crucial characteristic - the intrinsic periodicity - has often been underexplored or insufficiently modeled in previous approaches, limiting their ability to capture fine-grained temporal dynamics under real-world conditions.
To bridge this gap, we propose Reperio-rPPG, a novel framework that strategically integrates Relational Convolutional Networks with a Graph Transformer to effectively capture the periodic structure inherent in physiological signals.
Additionally, recognizing the limited diversity of existing rPPG datasets, we further introduce a tailored CutMix augmentation to enhance the model's generalizability.
Extensive experiments conducted on three widely used benchmark datasets - PURE, UBFC-rPPG, and MMPD - demonstrate that Reperio-rPPG not only achieves state-of-the-art performance but also exhibits remarkable robustness under various motion (e.g., stationary, rotation, talking, walking) and illumination conditions (e.g., nature, low LED, high LED).
The code is publicly available at https://github.com/deconasser/Reperio-rPPG.
In recommender systems, online A/B testing is a crucial method for evaluating the performance of different models.
However, conducting online A/B testing often presents significant challenges, including substantial economic costs, user experience degradation, and considerable time requirements.
With the Large Language Models' powerful capacity, LLM-based agent shows great potential to replace traditional online A/B testing.
Nonetheless, current agents fail to simulate the perception process and interaction patterns, due to the lack of real environments and visual perception capability.
To address these challenges, we introduce a multi-modal user agent for A/B testing (A/B Agent).
Specifically, we construct a recommendation sandbox environment for A/B testing, enabling multimodal and multi-page interactions that align with real user behavior on online platforms.
The designed agent leverages multimodal information perception, fine-grained user preferences, and integrates profiles, action memory retrieval, and a fatigue system to simulate complex human decision-making.
We validated the potential of the agent as an alternative to traditional A/B testing from three perspectives: model, data, and features.
Furthermore, we found that the data generated by A/B Agent can effectively enhance the capabilities of recommendation models.
Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Applied-Machine-Learning-Lab/ABAgent.
Event-based eye tracking holds significant promise for fine-grained cognitive state inference, offering high temporal resolution and robustness to motion artifacts, critical features for decoding subtle mental states such as attention, confusion, or fatigue.
In this work, we introduce a model-agnostic, inference-time refinement framework designed to enhance the output of existing event-based gaze estimation models without modifying their architecture or requiring retraining.
Our method comprises two key post-processing modules: (i) Motion-Aware Median Filtering, which suppresses blink-induced spikes while preserving natural gaze dynamics, and (ii) Optical Flow-Based Local Refinement, which aligns gaze predictions with cumulative event motion to reduce spatial jitter and temporal discontinuities.
To complement traditional spatial accuracy metrics, we propose a novel Jitter Metric that captures the temporal smoothness of predicted gaze trajectories based on velocity regularity and local signal complexity.
Together, these contributions significantly improve the consistency of event-based gaze signals, making them better suited for downstream tasks such as micro-expression analysis and mind-state decoding.
Our results demonstrate consistent improvements across multiple baseline models on controlled datasets, laying the groundwork for future integration with multimodal affect recognition systems in real-world environments.
Our code implementations can be found at https://github.com/eye-tracking-for-physiological-sensing/EyeLoRiN.
Given the significant amount of time people spend in vehicles, health issues under driving condition have become a major concern.
Such issues may vary from fatigue, asthma, stroke, to even heart attack, yet they can be adequately indicated by vital signs and abnormal activities.
Therefore, in-vehicle vital sign monitoring can help us predict and hence prevent these issues.
Whereas existing sensor-based (including camera) methods could be used to detect these indicators, privacy concern and system complexity both call for a convenient yet effective and robust alternative.
This paper aims to develop V2iFi, an intelligent system performing monitoring tasks using a COTS impulse radio mounted on the windshield.
V2iFi is capable of reliably detecting driver's vital signs under driving condition and with the presence of passengers, thus allowing for potentially inferring corresponding health issues.
Compared with prior work based on Wi-Fi CSI, V2iFi is able to distinguish reflected signals from multiple users, and hence provide finer-grained measurements under more realistic settings.
We evaluate V2iFi both in lab environments and during real-life road tests; the results demonstrate that respiratory rate, heart rate, and heart rate variability can all be estimated accurately.
Based on these estimation results, we further discuss how machine learning models can be applied on top of V2iFi so as to improve both physiological and psychological wellbeing in driving environments.
Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) pose critical challenges to modern cybersecurity due to their multi-stage and stealthy nature.
While provenance-based detection approaches show promise in capturing causal attack semantics, current threat provenance practices face two paradoxical issues: (1) expert skepticism, where human analysts doubt the capability of traditional detection models to identify complex attacks; and (2) expert dependence, as analysts cannot manually process large-scale raw logs to detect threats without these models.
Consequently, collaboration between humans and traditional models remains the prevailing paradigm.
However, this renders investigation quality contingent upon human expertise and frequently results in alert fatigue.
To address these challenges, we present ProvAgent, a framework that evolves the threat provenance paradigm from human-model collaboration to a novel collaboration between multi-agent systems and traditional models.
ProvAgent leverages the speed and cost-efficiency of traditional models for initial anomaly screening over large-scale logs.
By enforcing fine-grained identity-behavior consistency via graph contrastive learning, it profiles entities based on specific attributes to generate high-fidelity alerts.
With these alerts serving as investigation entry points, ProvAgent achieves in-depth autonomous investigation through a hypothesis-verification multi-agent framework.
Evaluations with real-world datasets demonstrate that ProvAgent outperforms six state-of-the-art (SOTA) baselines in anomaly detection.
Through automated investigation, ProvAgent reconstructs near-complete attack processes at a minimum cost of \$0.06 per day.
In this paper, two fatigue lifetime prediction models are tested on TiAl intermetallic using results from uniaxial low-cycle fatigue tests.
Both assessments are based on dissipated energy but one of them considers a hydrostatic pressure correction.
This work allows to confirm, on this kind of material, the linear nature, already noticed on silicon molybdenum cast iron, TiNi shape memory alloy and 304L stainless steel, of dissipated energy, corrected or not with hydrostatic pressure, according to the number of cycles to failure.
This study also highlights that, firstly, the dissipated energy model is here more adequate to estimate low-cycle fatigue life and that, secondly, intrinsic parameters like microstructure as well as extrinsic parameters like temperature or strain ratio have an impact on prediction results.
A microstructure-based model is presented to predict the fatigue life of polycrystalline metallic alloys which present a bilinear Coffin-Manson relationship.
The model is based in the determination of the maximum value of a fatigue indicator parameter obtained from the plastic energy dissipated by cycle in the microstructure.
The fatigue indicator parameter was obtained by means of the computational homogenization of a representative volume element of the microstructure using a crystal-plasticity finite element model.
The microstructure-based model was applied to predict the low cyclic fatigue behavior of IN718 at 400$^\circ$C which exhibits a bilinear Coffin-Manson relationship under the assumption that this behavior is triggered by a transition from highly localized plasticity at low cyclic strain amplitudes to more homogeneous deformation at high cyclic strain amplitudes.
The model predictions were in very good agreement with the experimental results for a wide range of cyclic strain amplitudes and two strain ratios ($R_ε$ = 0 and -1) and corroborated the initial hypothesis.
Moreover, they provided a micromechanical explanation for the influence of the strain ratio on the fatigue life at low cyclic strain amplitudes.
This chapter presents an innovative framework for the application of machine learning and data analytics for the identification of alloys or composites exhibiting certain desired properties of interest.
The main focus is on alloys and composites with large composition spaces for structural materials.
Such alloys or composites are referred to as high-entropy materials (HEMs) and are here presented primarily in context of structural applications.
For each output property of interest, the corresponding driving (input) factors are identified.
These input factors may include the material composition, heat treatment, manufacturing process, microstructure, temperature, strain rate, environment, or testing mode.
The framework assumes the selection of an optimization technique suitable for the application at hand and the data available.
Physics-based models are presented, such as for predicting the ultimate tensile strength (UTS) or fatigue resistance.
We devise models capable of accounting for physics-based dependencies.
We factor such dependencies into the models as a priori information.
In case that an artificial neural network (ANN) is deemed suitable for the applications at hand, it is suggested to employ custom kernel functions consistent with the underlying physics, for the purpose of attaining tighter coupling, better prediction, and for extracting the most out of the - usually limited - input data available.
A multi-scale methodology is developed in conjunction with a probabilistic fatigue lifetime model for structures with pores whose exact distribution, i.e. geometries and locations, is unknown.
The method takes into account uncertainty in fatigue lifetimes in structures due to defects at two scales: micro-scale heterogeneity & meso-scale pores.
An element-wise probabilistic strain-life model with its criterion modified for taking into account multiaxial loading is developed for taking into account the effect of micro-scale defects on the lifetime.
Meso-scale pores in the structure are taken into account via statistical modelling of the expected pore populations via a finite element method, based on tomographic scans of a small region of porous material used to make the structure.
A previously implemented Neuber-type plastic correction algorithm is used for fast full-field approximation of the strain-life criterion around the statistically generated pore fields.
The probability of failure of a porous structure is obtained via a weakest link assumption at the level of its constituent finite elements.
The fatigue model can be identified via a maximum likelihood estimate on experimental fatigue data of structures containing different types of pore populations.
The proposed method is tested on an existing high-cycle fatigue data-set of an aluminium alloy with two levels of porosity.
The model requires lesser data for identification than traditional models that consider porous media as a homogeneous material, as the same base material is considered for the two grades of porous material. Numerical studies on synthetically generated data show that the method is capable of taking into account the statistical size effect in fatigue, and demonstrate that fatigue properties of subsurface porous material are lower than that of core porous material, which makes homogenisation of the method non-trivial.
Aluminum alloy A356-T6 was subjected to fully reversed cyclic loading under tension, torsion and combined loading.
Results indicate that endurance limits are governed by maximum principal stress.
Fractography demonstrates long shear mode III propagation with multiple initiation sites under torsion.
Under other loadings, fracture surfaces show unique initiation sites coincidental to defects and mode I crack propagation.
Using the replica technique, it has been shown that the initiation life is negligible for fatigue lives close to 1E6 cycles for combined loading.
The natural crack growth rate has also been shown to be comparable to long cracks in similar materials.
Aluminum is a widely used alloy, which is susceptible to fatigue failure.
Characterizing fatigue performance for materials is extremely time and cost demanding, especially for high cycle data.
To help mitigate this, a transfer learning based framework has been developed using Long short-term memory networks (LSTMs) in which a source LSTM model is trained based on pure axial fatigue data for Aluminum 7075-T6 alloy which is then transferred to predict high cycle torsional S-N curves.
The framework was able to accurately predict Al torsional S-N curves for a much higher cycle range.
It is the belief that this framework will help to drastically mitigate the cost of gathering fatigue characteristics for different materials and help prioritize tests with better cost and time constraints.
Detecting mechanical fatigue of metallic components is always a challenge in industries.
In this work, we proposed to monitor the low-cycle fatigue of a 6061 aluminum alloy based on internal friction (IF) measurement, which is realized by a quantitative electromechanical impedance (Q-EMI) method using a small piezoelectric wafer bonded on the specimen.
Large strain amplitude (3.3*10^-3) was employed thus the fatigue life can always be below 10^5 cycles.
It was found that except for the initial testing stage, the IF always increases steadily with the increasing fatigue cycles.
Before the fatigue failure, the IF can reach 2.5 to 3.4 times of the initial value, which is thought to be caused by the micro-cracks forming and growing.
In comparison, the resonance frequency of the specimen just drops less than 2% compared with the initial value.
Finally, a general fatigue criterion based on IF measurement is suggested for all the metallic materials.
We present an HST/ACS weak gravitational lensing analysis of 13 massive high-redshift (z_median=0.88) galaxy clusters discovered in the South Pole Telescope (SPT) Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Survey.
This study is part of a larger campaign that aims to robustly calibrate mass-observable scaling relations over a wide range in redshift to enable improved cosmological constraints from the SPT cluster sample.
We introduce new strategies to ensure that systematics in the lensing analysis do not degrade constraints on cluster scaling relations significantly.
First, we efficiently remove cluster members from the source sample by selecting very blue galaxies in V-I colour.
Our estimate of the source redshift distribution is based on CANDELS data, where we carefully mimic the source selection criteria of the cluster fields.
We apply a statistical correction for systematic photometric redshift errors as derived from Hubble Ultra Deep Field data and verified through spatial cross-correlations.
We account for the impact of lensing magnification on the source redshift distribution, finding that this is particularly relevant for shallower surveys.
Finally, we account for biases in the mass modelling caused by miscentring and uncertainties in the concentration-mass relation using simulations.
In combination with temperature estimates from Chandra we constrain the normalisation of the mass-temperature scaling relation ln(E(z) M_500c/10^14 M_sun)=A+1.5 ln(kT/7.2keV) to A=1.81^{+0.24}_{-0.14}(stat.) +/- 0.09(sys.), consistent with self-similar redshift evolution when compared to lower redshift samples.
Additionally, the lensing data constrain the average concentration of the clusters to c_200c=5.6^{+3.7}_{-1.8}.
Quantum information technology offers the potential to realize unprecedented computational resources via secure channels capable of distributing entanglement between quantum computers.
Diamond, as a host to atom-like defects with optically-accessible spin qubits, is a leading platform to realize quantum memory nodes needed to extend the reach of quantum links.
Photonic crystal (PhC) cavities enhance light-matter interaction and are essential ingredients of an efficient interface between spins and photons that are used to store and communicate quantum information respectively.
Despite great effort, however, the realization of visible PhC cavities with high quality factor (Q) and design flexibility is challenging in diamond.
Here, we demonstrate one- and two-dimensional PhC cavities fabricated in recently developed thin-film diamonds, featuring Q-factors of 1.8x10$^5$ and 1.6x10$^5$, respectively, the highest Qs for visible PhC cavities realized in any material. Importantly, our fabrication process is simple and high-yield, based on conventional planar fabrication techniques, in contrast to previous approaches that rely on complex undercut methods.
We also demonstrate fiber-coupled 1D PhC cavities with high photon extraction efficiency, and optical coupling between a single SiV center and such a cavity at 4K achieving a Purcell factor of 13.
The demonstrated diamond thin-film photonic platform will improve the performance and scalability of quantum nodes and expand the range of quantum technologies.
A cycle cover of a graph is a set of cycles such that every vertex is part of exactly one cycle.
An L-cycle cover is a cycle cover in which the length of every cycle is in the set L.
The weight of a cycle cover of an edge-weighted graph is the sum of the weights of its edges.
We come close to settling the complexity and approximability of computing L-cycle covers.
On the one hand, we show that for almost all L, computing L-cycle covers of maximum weight in directed and undirected graphs is APX-hard and NP-hard.
Most of our hardness results hold even if the edge weights are restricted to zero and one.
On the other hand, we show that the problem of computing L-cycle covers of maximum weight can be approximated within a factor of 2 for undirected graphs and within a factor of 8/3 in the case of directed graphs.
This holds for arbitrary sets L.
We report the first investigation of cool-core properties of galaxy clusters selected via their Sunyaev--Zel'dovich (SZ) effect.
We use 13 galaxy clusters uniformly selected from 178 deg^2 observed with the South Pole Telescope (SPT) and followed up by the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
They form an approximately mass-limited sample (> 3 x 10^14 M_sun h^-1_70) spanning redshifts 0.3 < z < 1.1.
Using previously published X-ray-selected cluster samples, we compare two proxies of cool-core strength: surface brightness concentration (cSB) and cuspiness (α).
We find that cSB is better constrained.
We measure cSB for the SPT sample and find several new z > 0.5 cool-core clusters, including two strong cool cores.
This rules out the hypothesis that there are no z > 0.5 clusters that qualify as strong cool cores at the 5.4σ level.
The fraction of strong cool-core clusters in the SPT sample in this redshift regime is between 7% and 56% (95% confidence).
Although the SPT selection function is significantly different from the X-ray samples, the high-z cSB distribution for the SPT sample is statistically consistent with that of X-ray-selected samples at both low and high redshifts.
The cool-core strength is inversely correlated with the offset between the brightest cluster galaxy and the X-ray centroid, providing evidence that the dynamical state affects the cool-core strength of the cluster.
Larger SZ-selected samples will be crucial in understanding the evolution of cluster cool cores over cosmic time.
In this paper, we construct almost resolvable cycle systems of order $4k+1$ for odd $k\ge 11$.
This completes the proof of the existence of almost resolvable cycle systems with odd cycle length.
The article presents the results of corrosion-fatigue tests of industrial Al-Mg alloys were conducted in air and in a 3% NaCl aqueous solution.
Fatigue curves can be characterized using the Basquin equation and the plastic deformation model at the crack tip.
It has been demonstrated that the primary contributions to corrosion-fatigue failure in the Al-Mg alloys at low stresses are made by the process of pitting and intergranular corrosion, and by the plastic deformation at high stresses.
We present a phase field-based framework for modelling fatigue damage in Shape Memory Alloys (SMAs).
The model combines, for the first time: (i) a generalised phase field description of fracture, incorporating multiple phase field formulations, (ii) a constitutive model for SMAs, based on a Drucker-Prager form of the transformation surface, and (iii) a fatigue degradation function, with damage driven by both elastic and transformation strains.
The theoretical framework is numerically implemented, and the resulting linearised system is solved using a robust monolithic scheme, based on quasi-Newton methods.
Several paradigmatic boundary value problems are addressed to gain insight into the role of transformation stresses, stress-strain hysteresis and temperature.
Namely, we compute $Δ\varepsilon-N$ curves, quantify Paris law parameters and predict fatigue crack growth rates in several geometries.
In addition, the potential of the model for solving large-scale problems is demonstrated by simulating the fatigue failure of a 3D lattice structure.
Slip intermittency and stress oscillations in titanium alloy Ti-7Al-O that were observed using in-situ far-field high energy X-ray diffraction microscopy (ff-HEDM) are investigated using a discrete dislocation plasticity (DDP) model.
The mechanistic foundation of slip intermittency and stress oscillations are shown to be dislocation escape from obstacles during stress holds, governed by a thermal activation constitutive law.
The stress drop events due to <a>-basal slip are larger in magnitude than those along <a>-prism, which is a consequence of their differing rate sensitivities, previously found from micropillar testing.
It is suggested that interstitial oxygen suppresses stress oscillations by inhibiting the thermal activation process.
Understanding of these mechanisms is of benefit to the design and safety assessment of jet engine titanium alloys subjected to dwell fatigue.
We introduced an elevated trap technique and exploited it for lowering the effective temperature of indirect excitons.
We observed narrow photoluminescence lines which correspond to the emission of individual states of indirect excitons in a disorder potential. We studied the effect of exciton-exciton interaction on the localized and delocalized exciton states and found that the homogeneous line broadening increases with density and dominates the linewidth at high densities.
The composition of Ultra High Energy Cosmic Rays (UHECR) is measured with the High Resolution Fly's Eye cosmic ray observatory (HiRes) data using the Xmax technique.
Data were collected in stereo between 1999 November and 2001 September.
The data are reconstructed with well-determined geometry.
Measurements of the atmospheric transmission are incorporated in the reconstruction.
The detector resolution is found to be 30 g cm^-2 in Xmax and 13% in Energy.
The Xmax elongation rate between 10^18.0 eV and 10^19.4 eV is measured to be 54.5 +/- 6.5 (stat) +/- 4.5 (sys) g cm^-2 per decade.
This is compared to predictions using the QGSJet01 and SIBYLL 2.1 hadronic interaction models for both protons and iron nuclei.
CORSIKA-generated Extensive Air Showers (EAS) are incorporated directly into a detailed detector Monte Carlo program.
The elongation rate and the Xmax distribution widths are consistent with a constant or slowly changing and predominantly light composition.
A simple model containing only protons and iron nuclei is compared to QGSJet and SIBYLL.
The best agreement between the model and the data is at 80% protons for QGSJet and 60% protons for SIBYLL.
With the framework of the multi-source thermal model, we analyze the experimental transverse momentum spectra of various jets produced in different collisions at high energies.
Two energy sources, a projectile participant quark and a target participant quark, are considered.
Each energy source (each participant quark) is assumed to contribute to the transverse momentum distribution to be the TP-like function, i.e. a revised Tsallis--Pareto-type function.
The contribution of the two participant quarks to the transverse momentum distribution is then the convolution of two TP-like functions.
The model distribution can be used to fit the experimental spectra measured by different collaborations.
The related parameters such as the entropy index-related, effective temperature, and revised index are then obtained.
The trends of these parameters are useful to understand the characteristic of high energy collisions.
The accumulation of plastic deformation and flow localization in amorphous alloys under periodic shear are investigated using molecular dynamics simulations.
We study a well-annealed binary mixture of one million atoms subjected to oscillatory shear deformation with strain amplitudes slightly above a critical value.
We find that upon approaching a critical strain amplitude from above, the number of shear cycles until the yielding transition is well described by a power-law function.
Remarkably, the potential energy at the end of each cycle as a function of the normalized number of cycles is nearly independent of the strain amplitude, which allows for estimation of the fatigue lifetime at a given strain amplitude.
The analysis on nonaffine displacements of atoms elucidates the process of strain localization, including irreversible rearrangements of small clusters until the formation of a system-spanning shear band.
The generalized Crewther relation relates the cross section ratio $R=σ(e^+e^- \to {\rm hadrons})/σ(e^+e^- \to μ^+ μ^-)$ in $e^+e^-$ annihilation with the Bjorken sum rule or the Gross-Llewellyn Smith sum rule in deep inelastic scattering and provides a fundamental connection for observables in Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) without scale or scheme ambiguities.
The ratio $R$ can be measured at the upgrated Bejing Electron Positron Collider or the $τ$-Charm factory with higher precision and thus can be served for a high precision test of QCD in the Standard Model.
We propose a novel variational phase-field model for fracture and fatigue in pseudoelastic shape memory alloys (SMAs).
The model, developed in a one-dimensional setting, builds upon the Auricchio-Petrini constitutive formulation for SMAs and couples damage evolution with phase transformation.
We study analytically and numerically the homogeneous and localization responses of a bar under both monotonic and cyclic loading, and we investigate various macroscopic behaviors by tuning the constitutive parameters.
A key feature of the model is the introduction of a transformation strain limit, beyond which the material is fully martensitic and behaves elastically.
This leads to a distinctive behavior in which the region of localized damage widens, yielding a delay of fracture.
The capability of the model to predict the fatigue performance is demonstrated by simulating the uniaxial response of Ni-Ti multi-wire samples under different loading conditions.
The results show promising agreement with experimental fatigue life data, enabling the discrimination between safe and critical loading scenarios.
In this minireview article, we examine the inconsistent results of thermal parameters derived from various models in high-energy collisions.
Through a comprehensive literature review and based on the average transverse momentum or the root-mean-square transverse momentum, we propose model-independent parameters to address these inconsistencies.
The relevant parameters include: the initial temperature, the effective temperature, the kinetic freeze-out temperature, and the average transverse velocity.
Our findings indicate that these four parameters are larger in central collisions, within central rapidity regions, at higher energies, and in larger collision systems.
As collision energy increases, excitation functions for all four parameters rise rapidly (slowly) within ranges below (above) approximately 7.7 GeV.
At higher energies (>39) GeV, fluctuations occur in trends for these excitation functions, with only slight changes observed in their growth rates.
Additionally, this work reveals a mass-dependent multi-temperature scenario pertaining to both initial states and kinetic freeze-out processes.
We have studied the transverse momentum ($p_T$) spectra of the final-state strange particles, including $K^{\pm}$, $φ$, $\itΞ$, and $\itΩ$, produced in high energy lead-lead (Pb-Pb), proton-lead ($p$-Pb), xenon-xenon (Xe-Xe) collisions at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC).
Taking into account the contribution of multi-quark composition, whose probability density distribution is described by the modified Tsallis-Pareto-type function, we simulate the $p_T$ spectra of the final-state strange particles by a Monte Carlo method, which is shown to be in good agreement with the experimental data in most the cases.
The kinetic freeze-out parameters are obtained.
The present method provides a new tool for studying the spectra of various particles produced in high energy collisions, reflecting more realistically the collision process, which is of great significance to study the formation and properties of the produced particles.
After reviewing the sound speeds in various forms and conditions of matter, we investigate the sound speed of hadronic matter that has decoupled from the hot and dense system formed during high-energy collisions.
We comprehensively consider factors such as energy loss of the incident beam, rapidity shift of leading nucleons, and the Landau hydrodynamic model for hadron production.
The sound speed is related to the width or standard deviation of the Gaussian rapidity distribution of hadrons.
The extracted square speed of sound lies within a range from 0 to 1/3 in most cases.
For scenarios exceeding this limit, we also provide an explanation.
A high-strength dual alpha+beta phase titanium alloy Ti-6Al-4V is utilized as a material for beam windows in several accelerator target facilities.
However, relatively little is known about how material properties of this alloy are affected by high-intensity proton beam irradiation.
With plans to upgrade neutrino facilities at J-PARC and Fermilab to over 1 MW beam power, the radiation damage in the window material will reach a few displacements per atom (dpa) per year, significantly above the ~0.3 dpa level of existing data.
The RaDIATE collaboration has conducted a high intensity proton beam irradiation of various target and window material specimens at BLIP facility, including a variety of titanium alloys.
Post-Irradiation Examination of the specimens in the 1st capsule, irradiated at up to 0.25 dpa, is in progress.
Tensile tests in a hot cell at PNNL exhibited a clear signature of radiation hardening and loss of ductility for Ti-6Al-4V, while Ti-3Al-2.5V, with less beta phase, exhibited less severe hardening.
Microstructural investigations will follow to study the cause of the difference in tensile behavior between these alloys.
High-cycle fatigue (HCF) performance is critical to the lifetime estimation of beam windows exposed to a periodic thermal stress from a pulsed proton beam.
The 1st HCF data on irradiated titanium alloys are to be obtained by a conventional bend fatigue test at Fermilab and by an ultrasonic mesoscale fatigue test at Culham Laboratory.
Specimens in the 2nd capsule, irradiated at up to ~1 dpa, cover typical titanium alloy grades, including possible radiation-resistant candidates.
These systematic studies on the effects of radiation damage of titanium alloys are intended to enable us to predict realistic lifetimes of current beam windows made of Ti-6Al-4V and to extend the lifetime by choosing a more radiation and thermal shock tolerant alloy.
Transverse momentum (mass) spectra of positively and negatively charged pions, positively and negatively charged kaons, protons and antiprotons produced at mid-(pseudo)rapidity in various collisions at high energies are analyzed in this work.
The experimental data measured in central gold-gold, central lead-lead, and inelastic proton-proton collisions by several international collaborations are studied.
The (two-component) standard distribution is used to fit the data and extract the excitation function of effective temperature.
Then, the excitation functions of kinetic freeze-out temperature, transverse flow velocity, and initial temperature are obtained.
In the considered collisions, the four parameters increase with the increase of collision energy in general, and the kinetic freeze-out temperature appears the trend of saturation at the top Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider and the Large Hadron Collider.
Integrating solid-state quantum emitters with nanophotonic resonators is essential for efficient spin-photon interfacing and optical networking applications.
While diamond color centers have proven to be excellent candidates for emerging quantum technologies, their integration with optical resonators remains challenging.
Conventional approaches based on etching resonators into diamond often negatively impact color center performance and offer low device yield.
Here, we developed an integrated photonics platform based on templated atomic layer deposition of TiO2 on diamond membranes.
Our fabrication method yields high-performance nanophotonic devices while avoiding etching wavelength-scale features into diamond.
Moreover, this technique generates highly reproducible optical resonances and can be iterated on individual diamond samples, a unique processing advantage.
Our approach is suitable for a broad range of both wavelengths and substrates and can enable high-cooperativity interfacing between cavity photons and coherent defects in diamond or silicon carbide, rare earth ions, or other material systems.
We have measured the cosmic ray spectrum above 10^17.2 eV using the two air fluorescence detectors of the High Resolution Fly's Eye observatory operating in monocular mode.
We describe the detector, photo-tube and atmospheric calibrations, as well as the analysis techniques for the two detectors.
We fit the spectrum to a model consisting of galactic and extra-galactic sources.
I discuss a number of novel phenomenological features of QCD in high transverse momentum reactions.
The presence of direct higher-twist processes, where a proton is produced directly in the hard subprocess, can explain the "baryon anomaly" -- the large proton-to-pion ratio seen at RHIC in high centrality heavy ion collisions.
Direct hadronic processes can also account for the deviation from leading-twist PQCD scaling at fixed x_T = 2p_T/\sqrt s.
I suggest that the "ridge" -- the same-side long-range rapidity correlation observed at RHIC in high centrality heavy ion collisions is due to the imprint of semihard DGLAP gluon radiation from initial-state partons which have transverse momenta biased toward the trigger.
Rescattering interactions from gluon-exchange, normally neglected in the parton model, have a profound effect in QCD hard-scattering reactions, leading to leading-twist single-spin asymmetries, diffractive deep inelastic scattering, diffractive hard hadronic reactions, the breakdown of the Lam-Tung relation in Drell-Yan reactions, nuclear shadowing --all leading-twist dynamics not incorporated in the light-front wavefunctions of the target computed in isolation.
Antishadowing is shown to be quark flavor specific and thus different in charged and neutral deep inelastic lepton-nucleus scattering.
I also discuss the consequences of color-octet intrinsic heavy quark distributions in the proton for heavy particle and Higgs production at high x_F.
The AdS/CFT correspondence between Anti-de Sitter space and conformal gauge theories allows one to compute the analytic form of frame-independent light-front wavefunctions of mesons and baryons and to compute quark and gluon hadronization at the amplitude level.
Given a bridgeless graph G, the well-known cycle double cover conjecture posits that there is a list of cycles of G, such that every edge appears in exactly two cycles.
In this paper, we prove the cycle double cover conjecture.
More precisely, we prove the Goddyn's conjecture as a stronger version of the cycle double cover conjecture which states that every cycle in G is a member of some cycle double cover of G.
The transverse momentum spectra of identified particles produced in high energy proton-proton ($p+p$) collisions are empirically described by a new method with the framework of participant quark model or the multisource model at the quark level, in which the source itself is exactly the participant quark.
Each participant (constituent) quark contributes to the transverse momentum spectrum, which is described by the TP-like function, a revised Tsallis--Pareto-type function.
The transverse momentum spectrum of the hadron is the convolution of two or more TP-like functions.
For a lepton, the transverse momentum spectrum is the convolution of two TP-like functions due to two participant quarks, e.g. projectile and target quarks, taking part in the collisions.
A discussed theoretical approach seems to describe the $p+p$ collisions data at center-of-mass energy $\sqrt{s}=200$ GeV, 2.76 TeV, and 13 TeV very well.
In this mini review article, the transverse momentum spectra of final-state particles produced in high energy hadron-hadron, hadron-nucleus, and nucleus-nucleus collisions described by the multi-source thermal model at the quark or parton level is summarized.
In the model, the participant or contributor quarks or partons are considered to contribute together to the transverse momentum distribution of final-state particles with different modes of contributions.
The concrete mode of contribution is generally determined by the difference of azimuthal angles of contributor partons in their emissions.
Data taken in stereo mode by the High Resolution Fly's Eye (HiRes) air fluorescence experiment are analyzed to search for correlations between the arrival directions of ultra--high-energy cosmic rays with the positions of BL Lacertae objects.
Several previous claims of significant correlations between BL Lacs and cosmic rays observed by other experiments are tested.
These claims are not supported by the HiRes data.
However, we verify a recent analysis of correlations between HiRes events and a subset of confirmed BL Lacs from the 10th Veron Catalog, and we study this correlation in detail.
Due to the a posteriori nature of the search, the significance level cannot be reliably estimated and the correlation must be tested independently before any claim can be made.
We identify the precise hypotheses that will be tested with statistically independent data.
We have measured the cosmic ray spectrum at energies above $10^{17}$ eV using the two air fluorescence detectors of the High Resolution Fly's Eye experiment operating in monocular mode.
We describe the detector, PMT and atmospheric calibrations, and the analysis techniques for the two detectors.
We fit the spectrum to models describing galactic and extragalactic sources.
Our measured spectrum gives an observation of a feature known as the ``ankle'' near $3\times 10^{18}$ eV, and strong evidence for a suppression near $6\times 10^{19}$ eV.
Additive manufacturing (AM) technology is undergoing rapid development and emerging as an advanced technique that can fabricate complex near-net shaped and light-weight metallic parts with acceptable strength and fatigue performance.
A number of studies have indicated that the strength or other mechanical properties of AM metals are comparable or even superior to that of conventionally manufactured metals, but the fatigue performance is still a thorny problem that may hinder the replacement of currently used metallic components by AM counterparts when the cyclic loading and thus fatigue failure dominates.
This article reviews the state-of-art published data on the fatigue properties of AM metals, principally including $S$--$N$ data and fatigue crack growth data.
The AM techniques utilized to generate samples in this review include powder bed fusion (e.g., EBM, SLM, DMLS) and directed energy deposition (e.g., LENS, WAAM).
Further, the fatigue properties of AM metallic materials that involve titanium alloys, aluminum alloys, stainless steel, nickel-based alloys, magnesium alloys, and high entropy alloys, are systematically overviewed.
In addition, summary figures or tables for the published data on fatigue properties are presented for the above metals, the AM techniques, and the influencing factors (manufacturing parameters, e.g., built orientation, processing parameter, and post-processing).
The effects of build direction, particle, geometry, manufacturing parameters, post-processing, and heat-treatment on fatigue properties, when available, are provided and discussed.
The fatigue performance and main factors affecting the fatigue behavior of AM metals are finally compared and critically analyzed, thus potentially providing valuable guidance for improving the fatigue performance of AM metals.
We present a new phase field framework for modelling fracture and fatigue in Shape Memory Alloys (SMAs).
The constitutive model captures the superelastic behaviour of SMAs and damage is driven by the elastic and transformation strain energy densities.
We consider both the assumption of a constant fracture energy and the case of a fracture energy dependent on the martensitic volume fraction.
The framework is implemented in an implicit time integration scheme, with both monolithic and staggered solution strategies.
The potential of this formulation is showcased by modelling a number of paradigmatic problems.
First, a boundary layer model is used to examine crack tip fields and compute crack growth resistance curves (R-curves).
We show that the model is able to capture the main fracture features associated with SMAs, including the toughening effect associated with stress-induced phase transformation.
Insight is gained into the role of temperature, material strength, crack density function and fracture energy homogenisation.
Secondly, several 2D and 3D boundary value problems are addressed, demonstrating the capabilities of the model in capturing complex cracking phenomena in SMAs, such as unstable crack growth, mixed-mode fracture or the interaction between several cracks.
Finally, the model is extended to fatigue and used to capture crack nucleation and propagation in biomedical stents, a paradigmatic application of nitinol SMAs.
The damage mechanisms and load redistribution of high strength TC17 titanium alloy/unidirectional SiC fibre composite (fibre diameter = 100 $μ$m) under high temperature (350 °C) fatigue cycling have been investigated in situ using synchrotron X-ray computed tomography (CT) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) for high cycle fatigue (HCF) under different stress amplitudes.
The three-dimensional morphology of the crack and fibre fractures has been mapped by CT.
During stable growth, matrix cracking dominates with the crack deflecting (by 50-100 $μ$m in height) when bypassing bridging fibres.
A small number of bridging fibres have fractured close to the matrix crack plane especially under relatively high stress amplitude cycling.
Loading to the peak stress led to rapid crack growth accompanied by a burst of fibre fractures.
Many of the fibre fractures occurred 50-300 $μ$m from the matrix crack plane during rapid growth, in contrast to that in the stable growth stage, leading to extensive fibre pull-out on the fracture surface.
The changes in fibre loading, interfacial stress, and the extent of fibre-matrix debonding in the vicinity of the crack have been mapped for the fatigue cycle and after the rapid growth by high spatial resolution XRD.
The fibre/matrix interfacial sliding extends up to 600 $μ$m (in the stable growth zone) or 700 $μ$m (in the rapid growth zone) either side of the crack plane.
The direction of interfacial shear stress reverses with the loading cycle, with the maximum frictional sliding stress reaching ~55 MPa in both the stable growth and rapid growth regimes.
I discuss the role played by large parton densities in the QCD description of high-pT observables in relativistic heavy-ion collisions.
In pA collisions, high-pT particles probe large parton densities in the nucleus and provide tests of the Color Glass Condensate (CGC) picture of the small-x part of the nuclear wave function.
In AA collisions, high-pT particles carry information on both the Quark-Gluon-Plasma phase, and the Glasma phase created at early times by the collision of two CGCs.
Given a finite abelian group $G$, consider the complete graph on the set of all elements of $G$.
Find a Hamiltonian cycle in this graph and for each pair of consecutive vertices along the cycle compute their sum.
What are the smallest and the largest possible number of sums that can emerge in this way?
What is the expected number of sums if the cycle is chosen randomly?
How the answers change if an orientation is given to the cycle and differences (instead of sums) are computed?
We give complete solutions to some of these problems and establish reasonably sharp estimates for the rest.
This paper investigates correlation properties of fluctuations in fatigue crack growth of polycrystalline materials, such as ductile alloys, that are commonly encountered in structures and machinery components of complex electromechanical systems.
The model of crack damage measure indicates that the fluctuations of fatigue crack growth are characterized by strong correlation patterns within short time scales and are uncorrelated for larger time scales.
The two correlation regimes suggest that the 7075-T6 aluminum alloy, analyzed in this paper, is characterized by a micro-structure which is responsible for an intermittent correlated dynamics of fatigue crack growth within a certain scale.
The constitutive equations of the damage measure are built upon the physics of fracture mechanics and are substantiated by Karhunen-Loève decomposition of fatigue test data.
Statistical orthogonality of the estimated damage measure and the resulting estimation error is demonstrated in a Hilbert space setting.
When exposed to intense electromagnetic fields, the quantum vacuum is expected to exhibit properties of a polarisable medium akin to a weakly nonlinear dielectric material. Various schemes have been proposed to measure such vacuum polarisation effects using a combination of high power lasers.
Motivated by several planned experiments, we provide an overview of experimental signatures that have been suggested to confirm this prediction of quantum electrodynamics of real photon-photon scattering.
In this work, we present a statistical treatment of stress-life (S-N) data drawn from a collection of records of fatigue experiments that were performed on 75S-T6 aluminum alloys.
Our main objective is to predict the fatigue life of materials by providing a systematic approach to model calibration, model selection and model ranking with reference to S-N data.
To this purpose, we consider fatigue-limit models and random fatigue-limit models that are specially designed to allow the treatment of the run-outs (right-censored data).
We first fit the models to the data by maximum likelihood methods and estimate the quantiles of the life distribution of the alloy specimen.
To assess the robustness of the estimation of the quantile functions, we obtain bootstrap confidence bands by stratified resampling with respect to the cycle ratio.
We then compare and rank the models by classical measures of fit based on information criteria.
We also consider a Bayesian approach that provides, under the prior distribution of the model parameters selected by the user, their simulation-based posterior distributions.
We implement and apply Bayesian model comparison methods, such as Bayes factor ranking and predictive information criteria based on cross-validation techniques under various a priori scenarios.
We study some properties of the characteristic cycle of a constructible complex on a smooth variety over a perfect field, push-forward and product.
We calculate leading-order dilepton yields from a quark-gluon plasma which has a time-dependent anisotropy in momentum space.
Such anisotropies can arise during the earliest stages of quark-gluon plasma evolution due to the rapid longitudinal expansion of the created matter.
A phenomenological model for the proper time dependence of the parton hard momentum scale, p_hard, and the plasma anisotropy parameter, xi, is proposed.
The model describes the transition of the plasma from a 0+1 dimensional collisionally-broadened expansion at early times to a 0+1 dimensional ideal hydrodynamic expansion at late times.
We find that high-energy dilepton production is enhanced by pre-equilibrium emission up to 50% at LHC energies, if one assumes an isotropization/thermalization time of 2 fm/c.
Given sufficiently precise experimental data this enhancement could be used to determine the plasma isotropization time experimentally.
Let $H$ be a Hopf algebra and let $\mathcal D_H$ be a Hopf-module category.
We describe the cocycles and coboundaries for the Hopf cyclic cohomology of $\mathcal D_H$, which correspond respectively to categorified cycles and vanishing cycles over $\mathcal D_H$.
An important role in our work is played by semicategories, which are categories that may not contain identity maps.
In particular, a cycle over $\mathcal D_H$ consists of a differential graded $H$-module semicategory equipped with a trace on endomorphism groups satisfying some conditions.
Using a pairing on cycles, we obtain a pairing $HC^p(\mathcal{C}) \otimes HC^q(\mathcal{C}') \longrightarrow HC^{p+q}(\mathcal{C} \otimes \mathcal{C}')$ on cyclic cohomology groups for small $k$-linear categories $\mathcal C$ and $\mathcal C'$.
We show that the characteristic cycle of the exterior product of constructible complexes is the exterior product of the characteristic cycles of factors.
This implies the compatibility of characteristic cycles with smooth pull-back which is a first step in the proof of the index formula.
The prediction of the evolution of individual solar cycles is a developing field, faced with divergence of forecasts even for a few years in the future.
Specifically for solar flares, long-term modeling is practically absent even in rough terms.
In this article a forecast for the evolution of solar cycle 25 in terms of solar flares activity is presented.
It is derived from an existing phenomenological model based on the coupling of an internal solar component and a planetary component.
In addition to competent temporal resolution, the predictions are characterized by features which both differentiate the model from other space climate forecasts and make it falsifiable.
We determine the cycle packing number of a directed graph using elementary projective algebraic geometry.
Our idea is rooted in the Khovanov-Rozansky theory.
In fact, using the Khovanov-Rozansky homology of a graph, we also obtain algebraic methods of detecting directed and undirected cycles containing a particular vertex or edge.
In recent years it has been claimed that the length of stellar activity cycles is determined by the stellar rotation rate.
It is observed that the cycle period increases with rotation period along the so-called active and inactive sequences.
In this picture the Sun occupies a solitary position in between the two sequences.
Our goal is to measure cyclic variations of the stellar light curve amplitude and the rotation period using four years of Kepler data.
Periodic changes of the light curve amplitude or the stellar rotation period are associated with an underlying activity cycle.
Using the McQuillan et al. 2014 sample we compute the rotation period and the variability amplitude for each Kepler quarter and search for periodic variations of both time series.
To test for periodicity in each stellar time series we consider Lomb-Scargle periodograms and use a selection based on a False Alarm Probability (FAP).
We detect amplitude periodicities in 3203 stars between 0.5-6 years covering rotation periods between 1-40 days.
Given our sample size of 23,601 stars and our selection criteria that the FAP is less than 5%, this number is almost three times higher than that expected from pure noise.
We do not detect periodicities in the rotation period beyond those expected from noise.
Our measurements reveal that the cycle period shows a weak dependence on rotation rate, slightly increasing for longer rotation period.
We further show that the shape of the variability deviates from a pure sine curve, consistent with observations of the solar cycle.
Our measurements do not support the existence of distinct sequences in the P_rot-P_cyc plane, although there is some evidence for the inactive sequence for rotation periods between 5-25 days.
Unfortunately, the total observing time is too short to draw sound conclusions on activity cycles with similar length as the solar cycle.
In this paper, we show that if $k\geq 6$ and $k \equiv 2 \pmod 4$, then there exists an almost resolvable $k$-cycle system of order $2kt+1$ for all $t\ge 1$ except possibly for $t=2$ and $k\geq 14$.
Thus we give a partial solution to an open problem posed by Lindner, Meszka, and Rosa (J.
Des., vol. 17, pp.404-410, 2009).
For most problems pertaining to perfect matchings, one may restrict attention to matching covered graphs - that is, connected nontrivial graphs with the property that each edge belongs to some perfect matching.
There is extensive literature on these graphs that are also known as 1-extendable graphs (since each edge extends to a perfect matching) including an ear decomposition theorem due to Lovász and Plummer.
A cycle $C$ of a graph $G$ is conformal if $G-V(C)$ has a perfect matching; such cycles play an important role in the study of perfect matchings, especially when investigating the Pfaffian orientation problem.
A matching covered graph $G$ is cycle-extendable if - for each even cycle $C$ - the cycle $C$ is conformal, or equivalently, each perfect matching of $C$ extends to a perfect matching of $G$, or equivalently, $C$ is the symmetric difference of two perfect matchings of $G$, or equivalently, $C$ extends to an ear decomposition of $G$.
In the literature, these are also known as cycle-nice or as 1-cycle resonant graphs.
Zhang, Wang, Yuan, Ng and Cheng, 2022, provided a characterization of claw-free cycle-extendable graphs.
Guo and Zhang, 2004, and independently Zhang and Li, 2012, provided characterizations of bipartite planar cycle-extendable graphs.
In this paper, we establish a characterization of all planar cycle-extendable graphs - in terms of $K_2$ and four infinite families.
Fatigue failure of crystalline materials is a difficult problem in science and engineering, and recent results have shown that fatigue crack growth can occur in intermittent jumps which have fat-tailed distributions.
As fatigue crack propagation is known to leave markings -- called striations -- on the fracture surface, the distances between these should also have fat-tailed distributions, if the crack propagation is intermittent.
Here, we combine macroscale crack tip tracking in fatigue crack growth measurements of aluminum 5005 samples with \emph{post-mortem} scanning electron microscopy imaging of the striation lines.
We introduce two different methods for extracting the striation line spacing from the images.
What we find is a similar distribution of striation spacings as jump sizes using one of our methods, but the average striation spacing does not correlate with the crack growth rate.
We conclude that we observe avalanche-like crack propagation, reflected in both the macroscale crack tip tracking as well as the analysis of the fracture surfaces.
Our results show that the fracture surfaces can be used to study the intermittency of fatigue crack propagation and in development of crack-resistant materials.
The advantages and disadvantages of the two methods introduced are discussed.
Optimisation problems are ubiquitous in particle and astrophysics, and involve locating the optimum of a complicated function of many parameters that may be computationally expensive to evaluate.
We describe a number of global optimisation algorithms that are not yet widely used in particle astrophysics, benchmark them against random sampling and existing techniques, and perform a detailed comparison of their performance on a range of test functions.
These include four analytic test functions of varying dimensionality, and a realistic example derived from a recent global fit of weak-scale supersymmetry.
Although the best algorithm to use depends on the function being investigated, we are able to present general conclusions about the relative merits of random sampling, Differential Evolution, Particle Swarm Optimisation, the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy, Bayesian Optimisation, Grey Wolf Optimisation, and the PyGMO Artificial Bee Colony, Gaussian Particle Filter and Adaptive Memory Programming for Global Optimisation algorithms.
Elastocaloric cooling with shape memory alloys (SMAs) is emerging as a promising candidate for next-generation, environmentally friendly refrigeration.
However, its development is hindered by the large driving force and low efficiency associated with uniaxial loading modes.
In response, we present an innovative elastocaloric air cooling approach that utilizes the bending of NiTi beams, offering a low-force and energy-efficient solution.
We achieve a continuous maximum temperature drop of 0.91 K and a dissipated energy of 15.1 N mm at a low specific driving force of 220 N.
Notably, the specimen achieves over 5 million cycles under a maximum surface tensile strain of 1.94% for macroscopic cyclic bending, via a pre-strained, warm laser shock peening (pw-LSP) method.
This unprecedented fatigue resistance originates from the formation of a hierarchical microstructure and a large compressive residual stress of over 1 GPa.
This work demonstrates the great potential of bending induced elastocaloric cooling in the near future.
We introduce a self-supervised representation learning method based on the task of temporal alignment between videos.
The method trains a network using temporal cycle consistency (TCC), a differentiable cycle-consistency loss that can be used to find correspondences across time in multiple videos.
The resulting per-frame embeddings can be used to align videos by simply matching frames using the nearest-neighbors in the learned embedding space.
To evaluate the power of the embeddings, we densely label the Pouring and Penn Action video datasets for action phases.
We show that (i) the learned embeddings enable few-shot classification of these action phases, significantly reducing the supervised training requirements; and (ii) TCC is complementary to other methods of self-supervised learning in videos, such as Shuffle and Learn and Time-Contrastive Networks.
The embeddings are also used for a number of applications based on alignment (dense temporal correspondence) between video pairs, including transfer of metadata of synchronized modalities between videos (sounds, temporal semantic labels), synchronized playback of multiple videos, and anomaly detection.
This question is raised by Cason, Friedman and Hopkins (CFH, 2012) after they firstly found and indexed quantitatively the cycles in a continuous time experiment.
To answer this question, we use the data from standard RPS experiment.
Our experiments are of the traditional setting - in each of repeated rounds, the subjects are paired with random matching, using pure strategy and must choose simultaneously, and after each round, each subject obtains only private information.
This economics environment is a decartelized and low-information one.
Using the cycle rotation indexes (CRI, developed by CFH) method, we find, the cycles not only exist but also persist in our experiment.
Meanwhile, the cycles' direction are consistent with 'standard' learning models.
That is the answer to the CHF question: Cycles do not dissipate in the simultaneously choose game.
In addtion, we discuss three questions (1) why significant cycles are uneasy to be obtained in traditional setting experiments; (2) why CRI can be an iconic indexing-method for 'standard' evolution dynamics; and (3) where more cycles could be expected.
We consider charmonium polarization at high-energy hadron collider Tevatron in the framework of the nonrelativistic QCD (NRQCD) and the k_T-factorization approach.
The polarization effects are studied for the direct and the prompt production channels.
The obtained predictions can be used to test the Regge limit of QCD and the NRQCD formalism.
This work employs the Birnbaum--Saunders distribution to model the fatigue life of metallic materials under cyclic loading and compares it with the normal distribution.
Fatigue-limit models are fitted to three datasets of unnotched specimens of 75S-T6 aluminum alloys and carbon laminate with different loading types.
A new equivalent stress definition that accounts for the effect of the experiment type is proposed.
The results show that the Birnbaum--Saunders distribution consistently outperforms the normal distribution in fitting the fatigue data and provides more accurate predictions of fatigue life and survival probability.
Fatigue failure can be thought by studying the collective motions of defects inside materials instead of focusing on the growth of a pre-existing micro-crack.
An experimental study of the statistical distribution of acoustic emissions avalanches along cycling is presented.
The evolutions of critical exponents through cyclic driving are estimated to track changes in the dissipation modes and consequently identify fatigue failure precursors.
We also use critical rupture models developed for earthquakes and stock market crashes predictions to forecast the time to failure with good reliability.
The Shear TEsting Programme (STEP) is a collaborative project to improve the accuracy and reliability of weak lensing measurement, in preparation for the next generation of wide-field surveys.
We review sixteen current and emerging shear measurement methods in a common language, and assess their performance by running them (blindly) on simulated images that contain a known shear signal. We determine the common features of algorithms that most successfully recover the input parameters.
We achieve previously unattained discriminatory precision in our analysis, via a combination of more extensive simulations, and pairs of galaxy images that have been rotated with respect to each other, thus removing noise from their intrinsic ellipticities.
The robustness of our simulation approach is also confirmed by testing the relative calibration of methods on real data.
Weak lensing measurement has improved since the first STEP paper.
Several methods now consistently achieve better than 2% precision, and are still being developed.
However, the simulations can now distinguish all methods from perfect performance.
Our main concern continues to be the potential for a multiplicative shear calibration bias: not least because this can not be internally calibrated with real data.
We determine which galaxy populations are responsible and, by adjusting the simulated observing conditions, we also investigate the effects of instrumental and atmospheric parameters.
We have isolated several previously unrecognised aspects of galaxy shape measurement, in which focussed development could provide further progress towards the sub-percent level of precision desired for future surveys.   [ABRIDGED]
We show that almost all permutations have some power that is a cycle of prime length.
The proof includes a theorem giving a strong upper bound on the proportion of elements of the symmetric group having no cycles with length in a given set.
This document was created by the Solar Simulations for the Atacama Large Millimeter Observatory Network (SSALMON) in preparation of the first regular observations of the Sun with the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA), which are anticipated to start in ALMA Cycle 4 in October 2016.
The science cases presented here demonstrate that a large number of scientifically highly interesting observations could be made already with the still limited solar observing modes foreseen for Cycle 4 and that ALMA has the potential to make important contributions to answering long-standing scientific questions in solar physics.
With the proposal deadline for ALMA Cycle 4 in April 2016 and the Commissioning and Science Verification campaign in December 2015 in sight, several of the SSALMON Expert Teams composed strategic documents in which they outlined potential solar observations that could be feasible given the anticipated technical capabilities in Cycle 4.
These documents have been combined and supplemented with an analysis, resulting in recommendations for solar observing with ALMA in Cycle 4.
In addition, the detailed science cases also demonstrate the scientific priorities of the solar physics community and which capabilities are wanted for the next observing cycles.
The work on this White Paper effort was coordinated in close cooperation with the two international solar ALMA development studies led by T.
Bastian (NRAO, USA) and R.
This document will be further updated until the beginning of Cycle 4 in October 2016.
In particular, we plan to adjust the technical capabilities of the solar observing modes once finally decided and to further demonstrate the feasibility and scientific potential of the included science cases by means of numerical simulations of the solar atmosphere and corresponding simulated ALMA observations.
Fatigue life characterizes the duration a material can function before failure under specific environmental conditions, and is traditionally assessed using stress-life (S-N) curves.
While machine learning and deep learning offer promising results for fatigue life prediction, they face the overfitting challenge because of the small size of fatigue experimental data in specific materials.
To address this challenge, we propose, DeepOFormer, by formulating S-N curve prediction as an operator learning problem.
DeepOFormer improves the deep operator learning framework with a transformer-based encoder and a mean L2 relative error loss function.
We also consider Stussi, Weibull, and Pascual and Meeker (PM) features as domain-informed features.
These features are motivated by empirical fatigue models.
To evaluate the performance of our DeepOFormer, we compare it with different deep learning models and XGBoost on a dataset with 54 S-N curves of aluminum alloys.
With seven different aluminum alloys selected for testing, our DeepOFormer achieves an R2 of 0.9515, a mean absolute error of 0.2080, and a mean relative error of 0.5077, significantly outperforming state-of-the-art deep/machine learning methods including DeepONet, TabTransformer, and XGBoost, etc.
The results highlight that our Deep0Former integrating with domain-informed features substantially improves prediction accuracy and generalization capabilities for fatigue life prediction in aluminum alloys.
Continuous-time reinforcement learning tasks commonly use discrete steps of fixed cycle times for actions.
As practitioners need to choose the action-cycle time for a given task, a significant concern is whether the hyper-parameters of the learning algorithm need to be re-tuned for each choice of the cycle time, which is prohibitive for real-world robotics.
In this work, we investigate the widely-used baseline hyper-parameter values of two policy gradient algorithms -- PPO and SAC -- across different cycle times.
Using a benchmark task where the baseline hyper-parameters of both algorithms were shown to work well, we reveal that when a cycle time different than the task default is chosen, PPO with baseline hyper-parameters fails to learn.
Moreover, both PPO and SAC with their baseline hyper-parameters perform substantially worse than their tuned values for each cycle time.
We propose novel approaches for setting these hyper-parameters based on the cycle time.
In our experiments on simulated and real-world robotic tasks, the proposed approaches performed at least as well as the baseline hyper-parameters, with significantly better performance for most choices of the cycle time, and did not result in learning failure for any cycle time.
Hyper-parameter tuning still remains a significant barrier for real-world robotics, as our approaches require some initial tuning on a new task, even though it is negligible compared to an extensive tuning for each cycle time.
Our approach requires no additional tuning after the cycle time is changed for a given task and is a step toward avoiding extensive and costly hyper-parameter tuning for real-world policy optimization.
The additively manufactured titanium aluminide alloy TNM-B1 was characterized microstructurally and mechanically in the as-built and hot isostatically pressed (HIP) condition.
Tensile and constant amplitude tests were performed at room temperature and 800 °C.
Using fractographic SEM images, the fracture-inducing defect was identified.
With the HIP, defect number and size could be reduced, increasing fatigue strength by 43% to 500 MPa. Using the model approaches of Murakami and Shiozawa, the fatigue life was correlated with the local stress intensity factor and could be described as function of the stress amplitude as well as the size and location of fracture-inducing defects.
We study the compatibility with proper push-forward of the characteristic cycles of a constructible complex on a smooth variety over a perfect field.
To a great extent, our understanding of the life cycle of dust is based on the observational and theoretical studies of the Milky Way and the Magellanic Clouds, which will be the topic of this contribution.
Over past years, a large volume of observations with unprecedented spatial resolution has been accumulated for the Milky Way.
It permits investigations of different stages of the life cycle of dust, from its formation in stellar sources to destruction in star-forming regions and supernovae shocks.
Observations of dust emission, extinction, polarisation of light, and interstellar element depletions in the solar neighbourhood provide the most accurate constraints for the reference dust models applied to study extragalactic systems.
However, global spatial studies of the circumstellar and interstellar dust are complicated in the Milky Way disk because of high extinction, confusion along the line of sight and large uncertainties in distances.
In contrast, the favourable location in the sky and the proximity of the Magellanic Clouds allow detailed multi-wavelength studies of the dust-forming stellar populations and the investigation of variations of the interstellar grain properties for the entire galaxies.
They enable the first comparison between the global stardust production rates from theoretical calculations and those from observations, which confirm discrepancy between accumulated stardust mass and observed interstellar dust mass - "the missing dust-source" problem.
Modelling of the life cycle of dust in the Large Magellanic Cloud showed that dust growth by mantle accretion in the ISM, a major dust source in the Milky Way, can be responsible for the existing dust mass in the LMC.
We will present comparison of the dust input from different sources to the dust budgets of the Milky Way and the Magellanic Clouds, which reveals how the role of these dust sources depends on metallicity.
We discuss how the chemical composition of QCD jets is altered by final state interactions in surrounding nuclear matter.
We describe this process through conversions of leading jet particles.
We find that conversions lead to an enhancement of kaons at high transverse momentum in Au+Au collisions at RHIC, while their azimuthal asymmetry v_2 is suppressed.
We introduce $F$-gauges over a prism, construct syntomic cycle classes, and prove the prismatic Poincaré duality for proper smooth schemes.
In this paper, we define the virtual fundamental cycle of a global Kuranishi chart as an element in the (analytic) orbispace K-homology of the virtual orbifold and verify that it defines the same invariants as those in \cite{Abouzaid23}.
The South Pole Telescope (SPT) is a 10 meter telescope operating at mm wavelengths.
It has recently completed a three-band survey covering 2500 sq. degrees.
One of the survey's main goals is to detect galaxy clusters using Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect and use these clusters for a variety of cosmological and astrophysical studies such as the dark energy equation of state, the primordial non-gaussianity and the evolution of galaxy populations.
Since 2005, we have been engaged in a comprehensive optical and near-infrared followup program (at wavelengths between 0.4 and 5 μm) to image high-significance SPT clusters, to measure their photometric redshifts, and to estimate the contamination rate of the candidate lists.
These clusters are then used for various cosmological and astrophysical studies.
The paper at hand presents an in-depth investigation into the fatigue behavior of the high-strength aluminum alloy EN AW-7020 T6 using both experimental and numerical approaches.
Two types of specimens are investigated: a dog-bone specimen subjected to cyclic loading in a symmetric strain-controlled regime, and a compact tension specimen subjected to repeated loading and unloading, which leads to damage growth from the notch tip.
Experimental data from these tests are used to identify the different phases of fatigue.
Subsequently, a plastic-damage model is developed, incorporating J2 plasticity with Chaboche-type mixed isotropic-kinematic hardening.
A detailed investigation reveals that the Chaboche model must be blended with a suitable isotropic hardening and combined with a proper damage growth model to accurately describe cyclic fatigue including large plastic strains up to failure.
Multiple back-stress components with independent properties are superimposed, and exponential isotropic hardening with saturation effects is introduced to improve alignment with experimental results.
For damage, different stress splits are tested, with the deviatoric/volumetric split proving successful in reproducing the desired degradation in peak stress and stiffness.
A nonlinear activation function is introduced to ensure smooth transitions between tension and compression.
Two damage indices, one for the deviatoric part and one for the volumetric part, are defined, each of which is governed by a distinct trilinear damage growth function.
The governing differential equation of the problem is regularized by higher-order gradient terms to address the ill-posedness induced by softening.
Finally, the plasticity model is calibrated using finite element simulations of the dog-bone test and subsequently applied to the cyclic loading of the compact tension specimen.
In this study, the effects of surface roughness and pore characteristics on fatigue lives of laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) Ti-6Al-4V parts were investigated.
The 197 fatigue bars were printed using the same laser power but with varied scanning speeds.
These actions led to variations in the geometries of microscale pores, and such variations were characterized using micro-computed tomography.
To generate differences in surface roughness in fatigue bars, half of the samples were grit-blasted and the other half machined.
Fatigue behaviors were analyzed with respect to surface roughness and statistics of the pores.
For the grit-blasted samples, the contour laser scan in the LPBF strategy led to a pore-depletion zone isolating surface and internal pores with different features.
For the machined samples, where surface pores resemble internal pores, the fatigue life was highly correlated with the average pore size and projected pore area in the plane perpendicular to the stress direction.
Finally, a machine learning model using a drop-out neural network (DONN) was employed to establish a link between surface and pore features to the fatigue data (logN), and good prediction accuracy was demonstrated.
Besides predicting fatigue lives, the DONN can also estimate the prediction uncertainty.
Two approaches to calculations' minimization in High Energy Physics are considered.
The first one is the method of covariant calculations for the amplitudes of processes with polarized Dirac particles.
The second one connects with the possibility to reduce the expressions for the traces of products of ten and more Dirac gamma-matrices.
If eps > 0 and p >= n^{-1/2 + eps}, in a binomial random graph G(n,p) a.a.s. the set of cycles which can be constructed as a symmetric difference of Hamilton circuits is as large as parity by itself permits (all cycles if n is odd, all even cycles if n is even).
Moreover, every p which ensures the above property a.a.s. must necessarily be such that for any constant c>0, eventually p >= (log n + 2 log log n + c)/n.
So, whatever the smallest sufficient p for an a.a.s.
Hamilton-generated cycle space might be, it does not coincide with the threshold for hamiltonicity of G(n,p).
Some of the natural variability in climate is understood to come from changes in the Sun.
A key route whereby the Sun may influence surface climate is initiated in the tropical stratosphere by the absorption of solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation by ozone, leading to a modification of the temperature and wind structures and consequently to the surface through changes in wave propagation and circulation.
While changes in total, spectrally-integrated, solar irradiance lead to small variations in global mean surface temperature, the `top-down' UV effect preferentially influences on regional scales at mid-to-high latitudes with, in particular, a solar signal noted in the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO).
The amplitude of the UV variability is fundamental in determining the magnitude of the climate response but understanding of the UV variations has been challenged recently by measurements from the SOlar Radiation and Climate Experiment (SORCE) satellite, which show UV solar cycle changes up to 10 times larger than previously thought.
Indeed, climate models using these larger UV variations show a much greater response, similar to NAO observations.
Here we present estimates of the ozone solar cycle response using a chemistry-climate model (CCM) in which the effects of transport are constrained by observations.
Thus the photolytic response to different spectral solar irradiance (SSI) datasets can be isolated.
Comparison of the results with the solar signal in ozone extracted from observational datasets yields significantly discriminable responses.
According to our evaluation the SORCE UV dataset is not consistent with the observed ozone response whereas the smaller variations suggested by earlier satellite datasets, and by UV data from empirical solar models, are in closer agreement with the measured stratospheric variations.
Determining the most appropriate SSI variability to apply in models...
Fatigue behaviors of metal components by laser fusion suffer from scattering due to random geometrical defects (e.g., porosity, lack of fusion).
Monitoring fatigue crack initiation and growth is critical, especially for laser-fused components with significant inherent fatigue scattering.
Conventional statistics-based curve-fitting fatigue models have difficulty incorporating significant scattering in their fatigue life due to the random geometrical defects.
A scattering-informed predictive method is needed for laser-fused materials' crack size and growth.
Current data-driven machine learning could circumvent the issue of deterministic modeling, but results in a black-box function that lacks interpretability.
To address these challenges, this study explores a novel nondimensionalized physics-informed machine learning (PIML) model to predict fatigue crack growth of laser-fused SS-316L by integrating fatigue laws and constraints with small data to ensure a realistic and interpretable prediction.
Resonance process signature data were leveraged with Paris's law to train the PIML model without experimental crack growth data.
The results show that Paris's law constants can be learned with good similarity to comparable data from the literature, and the crack growth rate can be predicted to compute crack sizes.
Component failure due to cold dwell fatigue of titanium and its alloys is a long-standing problem which has significant safety and economic implications to the aviation industry.
This can be addressed by understanding the governing mechanisms of time dependent plasticity behaviour of Ti at low temperatures.
Here, stress relaxation tests were performed at four different temperatures on three major alloy systems: commercially pure titanium (two alloys with different oxygen content), Ti-6Al-4V (two microstructures with differing beta phase fractions) and Ti-6Al-2Sn-4Zr-xMo (two alloys with different Mo content x= 2 or 6, and portion of beta phase).
Key parameters controlling the time dependent plasticity were determined as a function of temperature.
Both activation volume and energy were found to increase with temperature in all six alloys.
It was found that the dwell fatigue effect is more significant by oxygen alloying but is suppressed by the addition of Mo.
The presence of the beta phase did not strongly affect the dwell fatigue, however, it was suppressed at high temperature due to the low strain rate and strain rate sensitivity.
The Rock-Paper-Scissors (RPS) game is a widely used model system in game theory.
Evolutionary game theory predicts the existence of persistent cycles in the evolutionary trajectories of the RPS game, but experimental evidence has remained to be rather weak.
In this work we performed laboratory experiments on the RPS game and analyzed the social-state evolutionary trajectories of twelve populations of N=6 players.
We found strong evidence supporting the existence of persistent cycles.
The mean cycling frequency was measured to be $0.029 \pm 0.009$ period per experimental round.
Our experimental observations can be quantitatively explained by a simple non-equilibrium model, namely the discrete-time logit dynamical process with a noise parameter.
Our work therefore favors the evolutionary game theory over the classical game theory for describing the dynamical behavior of the RPS game.
This paper elaborates on the sectoral-regional view of the business cycle synchronization in the EU -- a necessary condition for the optimal currency area.
We argue that complete and tidy clustering of the data improves the decision maker's understanding of the business cycle and, by extension, the quality of economic decisions.
We define the business cycles by applying a wavelet approach to drift-adjusted gross value added data spanning over 2000Q1 to 2021Q2.
For the application of the synchronization analysis, we propose the novel soft-clustering approach, which adjusts hierarchical clustering in several aspects.
First, the method relies on synchronicity dissimilarity measures, noting that, for time series data, the feature space is the set of all points in time.
Then, the ``soft'' part of the approach strengthens the synchronization signal by using silhouette measures.
Finally, we add a probabilistic sparsity algorithm to drop out the most asynchronous ``noisy'' data improving the silhouette scores of the most and less synchronous groups.
The method, hence, splits the sectoral-regional data into three groups: the synchronous group that shapes the EU business cycle; the less synchronous group that may hint at cycle forecasting relevant information; the asynchronous group that may help investors to diversify through-the-cycle risks of the investment portfolios.
The results support the core-periphery hypothesis.
This study proposes a Physics-Informed Neural Network (PINN) framework to predict the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) life of irradiated austenitic and ferritic/martensitic (F/M) steels used in nuclear reactors.
These materials undergo cyclic loading, neutron irradiation, and elevated temperatures, leading to complex degradation mechanisms that are difficult to capture with conventional empirical or purely data-driven models.
The proposed PINN embeds fatigue-life governing physical constraints into the loss function, enabling physically consistent learning while improving predictive accuracy, reliability, and generalizability.
The model was trained on 495 strain-controlled fatigue data points spanning irradiated and unirradiated conditions.
Compared with traditional machine learning approaches, including Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, eXtreme Gradient Boosting, and conventional neural networks, the PINN demonstrated superior performance.
SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis identified strain amplitude, irradiation dose, and test temperature as the dominant features, each exhibiting physically meaningful inverse correlations with fatigue life.
Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed clear alloy-specific degradation characteristics.
Austenitic steels exhibited strong nonlinear coupling among strain amplitude, irradiation dose, and temperature, resulting in pronounced fatigue degradation under combined loading.
In contrast, F/M steels demonstrated comparatively stable irradiation responses, including dose-saturation behavior, but showed sensitivity to elevated temperatures beyond tempering thresholds.
Overall, the proposed PINN framework serves as a reliable and interpretable tool for reactor-relevant fatigue assessment, enabling performance evaluation for advanced nuclear applications.
Pressure, together with temperature and magnetic field, is an important thermodynamical parameter in physics.
Investigating the response of a compound or of a material to pressure allows to elucidate ground states, investigate their interplay and interactions and determine microscopic parameters.
Pressure tuning is used to establish phase diagrams, study phase transitions and identify critical points.
Muon spin rotation/relaxation (muSR) is now a standard technique making increasing significant contribution in condensed matter physics, material science research and other fields.
In this review, we will discuss specific requirements and challenges to perform muSR experiments under pressure, introduce the high-pressure muon facility at the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI, Switzerland) and present selected results obtained by combining the sensitivity of the muSR technique with pressure.
Some of the most exotic material properties derive from electronic states with short correlation length (~10-500 Å), suggesting that the local structural symmetry may play a relevant role in their behavior.
Here we discuss the combined use of polarized x-ray absorption fine structure and x-ray diffraction at high pressure as a powerful method to tune and probe structural and electronic orders at multiple length scales.
Besides addressing some of the technical challenges associated with such experiments, we illustrate this approach with results obtained in the cuprate La$_{1.875}$Ba$_{0.125}$CuO$_4$, in which the response of electronic order to pressure can only be understood by probing the structure at the relevant length scales.
We prove a structural result about the space of one cycles of a separably rationally connected variety or a separably rationally connected fibration over a curve, either as a topological group or as an h-sheaf.
This has the following consequences: a proof that the strong coniveau filtration agrees with the coniveau filtration on degree 3 homology, and a result on the integral Tate conjecture for homologically trivial one cycles.
The effect of oscillatory shear deformation on the fatigue life, yielding transition, and flow localization in metallic glasses is investigated using molecular dynamics simulations.
We study a well-annealed Cu-Zr amorphous alloy subjected to periodic shear at room temperature.
We find that upon loading for hundreds of cycles at strain amplitudes just below a critical value, the potential energy at zero strain remains nearly constant and plastic events are highly localized.
By contrast, at strain amplitudes above the critical point, the plastic deformation is gradually accumulated upon continued loading until the yielding transition and the formation of a shear band across the entire system.
Interestingly, when the strain amplitude approaches the critical value from above, the number of cycles to failure increases as a power-law function, which is consistent with the previous results on binary Lennard-Jones glasses.
Domain adaptive semantic segmentation aims to train a model performing satisfactory pixel-level predictions on the target with only out-of-domain (source) annotations.
The conventional solution to this task is to minimize the discrepancy between source and target to enable effective knowledge transfer.
Previous domain discrepancy minimization methods are mainly based on the adversarial training.
They tend to consider the domain discrepancy globally, which ignore the pixel-wise relationships and are less discriminative.
In this paper, we propose to build the pixel-level cycle association between source and target pixel pairs and contrastively strengthen their connections to diminish the domain gap and make the features more discriminative.
To the best of our knowledge, this is a new perspective for tackling such a challenging task.
Experiment results on two representative domain adaptation benchmarks, i.e. GTAV $\rightarrow$ Cityscapes and SYNTHIA $\rightarrow$ Cityscapes, verify the effectiveness of our proposed method and demonstrate that our method performs favorably against previous state-of-the-arts.
Our method can be trained end-to-end in one stage and introduces no additional parameters, which is expected to serve as a general framework and help ease future research in domain adaptive semantic segmentation.
Code is available at https://github.com/kgl-prml/Pixel- Level-Cycle-Association.
The edge list model is arguably the simplest input model for graphs, where the graph is specified by a list of its edges.
In this model, we study the quantum query complexity of three variants of the triangle finding problem.
The first asks whether there exists a triangle containing a target edge and raises general questions about the hiding of a problem's input among irrelevant data.
The second asks whether there exists a triangle containing a target vertex and raises general questions about the shuffling of a problem's input.
The third asks whether there exists a triangle; this problem bridges the $3$-distinctness and $3$-sum problems, which have been extensively studied by both cryptographers and complexity theorists.
We provide tight or nearly tight results for these problems as well as some first answers to the general questions they raise.
Furthermore, given any graph with low maximum degree, such as a typical random sparse graph, we prove that the quantum query complexity of finding a length-$k$ cycle in its length-$m$ edge list is $m^{3/4-1/(2^{k+2}-4)\pm o(1)}$, which matches the best-known upper bound for the quantum query complexity of $k$-distinctness on length-$m$ inputs up to an $m^{o(1)}$ factor.
We prove the lower bound by developing new techniques within Zhandry's recording query framework [CRYPTO '19] as generalized by Hamoudi and Magniez [ToCT '23].
These techniques extend the framework to treat any non-product distribution that results from conditioning a product distribution on the absence of rare events.
We prove the upper bound by adapting Belovs's learning graph algorithm for $k$-distinctness [FOCS '12].
Finally, assuming a plausible conjecture concerning only cycle finding, we show that the lower bound can be lifted to an essentially tight lower bound on the quantum query complexity of $k$-distinctness, which is a long-standing open question.
We investigate the possibility of generating and studying turbulence in plasma by means of high-energy density laser-driven experiments.
Our focus is to create supersonic, self-magnetized turbulence with characteristics that resemble those found in the interstellar medium (ISM).
We consider a target made of a spherical core surrounded by a shell made of denser material. The shell is irradiated by a sequence of laser pulses sending inward-propagating shocks that convert the inner core into plasma and create turbulence.
In the context of the evolution of the ISM, the shocks play the role of supernova remnant shocks and the core represents the ionized interstellar medium.
We consider the effects of both pre-existing and self-generating magnetic fields and study the evolution of the system by means of two-dimensional numerical simulations.
We find that the evolution of the turbulent core is generally, subsonic with rms-Mach number $M_t\approx 0.2$.
We observe an isotropic, turbulent velocity field with an inertial range power spectra of $P(k)\propto k^{-2.3}$.
We account for the effects of self-magnetization and find that the resulting magnetic field has characteristic strength $\approx 3\times 10^{4}$ G.
The corresponding plasma beta is $\approx 1\times 10^{4}$--$1\times 10^{5}$, indicating that the magnetic field does not play an important role in the dynamical evolution of the system.
The natural extension of this work is to study the system evolution in three-dimensions, with various laser drive configurations, and targets with shells and cores of different masses.
The latter modification may help to increase the turbulent intensity and possibly create transonic turbulence.
One of the key challenges is to obtain transonic turbulent conditions in a quasi-steady state environment.
The theory talks at Moriond QCD and High-Energy Interactions 2025 covered the full range of scales from BSM, top, Higgs, EW, and hard QCD physics, through resummation, factorisation, and PDFs, to hadronic, heavy-ion, nonperturbative, and lattice QCD.
A few talks also touched on methodologies.
We here summarise main points of most of these contributions.
Enumerating simple cycles has important applications in computational biology, network science, and financial crime analysis.
In this work, we focus on parallelising the state-of-the-art simple cycle enumeration algorithms by Johnson and Read-Tarjan along with their applications to temporal graphs.
To our knowledge, we are the first ones to parallelise these two algorithms in a fine-grained manner.
We are also the first to demonstrate experimentally a linear performance scaling.
Such a scaling is made possible by our decomposition of long sequential searches into fine-grained tasks, which are then dynamically scheduled across CPU cores, enabling an optimal load balancing.
Furthermore, we show that coarse-grained parallel versions of the Johnson and the Read-Tarjan algorithms that exploit edge- or vertex-level parallelism are not scalable.
On a cluster of four multi-core CPUs with $256$ physical cores, our fine-grained parallel algorithms are, on average, an order of magnitude faster than their coarse-grained parallel counterparts.
The performance gap between the fine-grained and the coarse-grained parallel algorithms widens as we use more CPU cores.
When using all 256 CPU cores, our parallel algorithms enumerate temporal cycles, on average, $260\times$ faster than the serial algorithm of Kumar and Calders.
Stress-induced martensitic transformations enable metastable alloys to exhibit enhanced strain hardening capacity, leading to improved formability and toughness.
As is well-known from transformation-induced plasticity (TRIP) steels, however, the resulting martensite can limit ductility and fatigue life due to its intrinsic brittleness.
In this work, we explore an alloy design strategy that utilizes stress-induced martensitic transformations but does not retain the martensite phase.
This strategy is based on the introduction of superelastic nano-precipitates, which exhibit reverse transformation after initial stress-induced forward transformation.
To this end, utilizing ab-initio simulations and thermodynamic calculations we designed and produced a V45Ti30Ni25 (at%) alloy.
In this alloy, TiNi is present as nano-precipitates uniformly distributed within a ductile V-rich base-centered cubic (bcc) beta matrix, as well as being present as a larger matrix phase.
We characterized the microstructure of the produced alloy using various scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) methods.
The bulk mechanical properties of the alloy are demonstrated through tensile tests, and the reversible transformation in each of the TiNi morphologies were confirmed by in-situ TEM micro-pillar compression experiments, in-situ high-energy diffraction synchrotron cyclic tensile tests, indentation experiments, and differential scanning calorimetry experiments.
The observed transformation pathways and variables impacting phase stability are critically discussed
We present a set of recommended best practices for JWST data collection for members of the community focussed on the direct imaging and spectroscopy of exoplanetary systems.
These findings and recommendations are based on the early analysis of the JWST Early Release Science Program 1386, "High-Contrast Imaging of Exoplanets and Exoplanetary Systems with JWST." Our goal is for this information to be useful for observers in preparation of JWST proposals for Cycle 2 and beyond.
In addition to compiling a set of best practices from our ERS program, in a few cases we also draw on the expertise gained within the instrument commissioning programs, as well as include a handful of data processing best practices.
We anticipate that this document will be regularly updated and resubmitted to arXiv.org to ensure that we have distributed our knowledge of best-practices for data collection as widely and efficiently as possible.
3C 279 is one of the best studied flat spectrum radio quasars located at a comparatively large redshift of z = 0.536.
Observations in the very high energy band of such distant sources were impossible until recently due to the expected steep energy spectrum and the strong gamma-ray attenuation by the extragalactic background light photon field, which conspire to make the source visible only with a low energy threshold.
Here the detection of a significant gamma-ray signal from 3C 279 at very high energies (E > 75 GeV) during a flare in early 2006 is reported.
Implications of its energy spectrum on the current understanding of the extragalactic background light and very high energy gamma-ray emission mechanism models are discussed.
Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) is a crucial technique in neuroimaging studies, allowing for the non-invasive probing of the underlying structures of brain tissues.
Clinical dMRI data is susceptible to various artifacts during acquisition, which can lead to unreliable subsequent analyses.
Therefore, dMRI preprocessing is essential for improving image quality, and manual inspection is often required to ensure that the preprocessed data is sufficiently corrected.
However, manual inspection requires expertise and is time-consuming, especially with large-scale dMRI datasets.
Given these challenges, an automated dMRI artifact detection tool is necessary to increase the productivity and reliability of dMRI data analysis.
To this end, we propose a novel unsupervised deep learning framework called $\textbf{U}$nsupervised $\textbf{d}$MRI $\textbf{A}$rtifact $\textbf{D}$etection via $\textbf{A}$ngular Resolution Enhancement and $\textbf{C}$ycle Consistency Learning (UdAD-AC).
UdAD-AC leverages dMRI angular resolution enhancement and cycle consistency learning to capture the effective representation of artifact-free dMRI data during training, and it identifies data containing artifacts using designed confidence score during inference.
To assess the capability of UdAD-AC, several commonly reported dMRI artifacts, including bias field, susceptibility distortion, and corrupted volume, were added to the testing data.
Experimental results demonstrate that UdAD-AC achieves the best performance compared to competitive methods in unsupervised dMRI artifact detection.
We consider the problem of obtaining unbiased estimates of group properties in social networks when using a classifier for node labels.
Inference for this problem is complicated by two factors: the network is not known and must be crawled, and even high-performance classifiers provide biased estimates of group proportions.
We propose and evaluate AdjustedWalk for addressing this problem.
This is a three step procedure which entails: 1) walking the graph starting from an arbitrary node; 2) learning a classifier on the nodes in the walk; and 3) applying a post-hoc adjustment to classification labels.
The walk step provides the information necessary to make inferences over the nodes and edges, while the adjustment step corrects for classifier bias in estimating group proportions.
This process provides de-biased estimates at the cost of additional variance.
We evaluate AdjustedWalk on four tasks: the proportion of nodes belonging to a minority group, the proportion of the minority group among high degree nodes, the proportion of within-group edges, and Coleman's homophily index.
Simulated and empirical graphs show that this procedure performs well compared to optimal baselines in a variety of circumstances, while indicating that variance increases can be large for low-recall classifiers.
Among the identified solar inertial modes, the high-latitude mode with azimuthal order $m=1$ (HL1) has the largest amplitude and plays a role in shaping the Sun's differential rotation profile.
We aim to study the evolution of the HL1 mode parameters, utilizing Dopplergrams from the Mount Wilson Observatory (MWO), GONG, and HMI, covering together five solar cycles since 1967.
We calculated the averages of line-of-sight Doppler signals over longitude, weighted by the sine of longitude with respect to the central meridian, as a proxy for zonal velocity at the surface.
We measured the mode's power and frequency from these zonal velocities at high latitudes in sliding time windows of three years.
We find that the amplitude of the HL1 mode undergoes very large variations, taking maximum values at the start of solar cycles 21, 22 and 25, and during the rising phases of cycles 23 and 24.
The mode amplitude is anticorrelated with the sunspot number (corr=$-0.50$) but not correlated with the polar field strength.
Over the period 1983-2022 the mode amplitude is strongly anticorrelated with the rotation rate at latitude $60^\circ$ (corr=$-0.82$), i.e., with the rotation rate near the mode's critical latitude.
The mode frequency variations are small and display no clear solar cycle periodicity above the noise level ($\sim \pm 3$ nHz).
Since about 1990, the mode frequency follows an overall decrease of $\sim 0.25$ nHz/year, consistent with the long-term decrease of the angular velocity at $60^\circ$ latitude.
We expect that these very long time series of the mode properties will be key to understand the dynamical interactions between the high-latitude modes, differential rotation, and (possibly) magnetic activity.
Many different worldwide initiatives are promoting the transformation from machine dominant manufacturing to digital manufacturing.
Thus, to achieve a successful transformation to Industry 4.0 standard, manufacturing enterprises are required to implement a clear roadmap.
However, Small and Medium Manufacturing Enterprises (SMEs) encounter many barriers and difficulties (economical, technical, cultural, etc.) in the implementation of Industry 4.0.
Although several works deal with the incorporation of Industry 4.0 technologies in the area of the product and supply chain life cycles, which SMEs could use as reference, this is not the case for the customer life cycle.
Thus, we present two contributions that can help the software engineers of those SMEs to incorporate Industry 4.0 technologies in the context of the customer life cycle.
The first contribution is a methodology that can help those software engineers in the task of creating new software services, aligned with Industry 4.0, that allow to change how customers interact with enterprises and the experiences they have while interacting with them.
The methodology details a set of stages that are divided into phases which in turn are made up of activities.
It places special emphasis on the incorporation of semantics descriptions and 3D visualization in the implementation of those new services.
The second contribution is a system developed for a real manufacturing scenario, using the proposed methodology, which allows to observe the possibilities that this kind of systems can offer to SMEs in two phases of the customer life cycle: Discover & Shop, and Use & Service.
All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLB) have been regarded as the most promising candidate to achieve the next generation energy storage with high energy and high safety.
However, some bottlenecks, including high interfacial resistance, bad electrochemical stability, and low conductivity, have hindered its further development.
Here, we developed a Pyr13FSI/LiFSI-based gel electrolyte and used it in the LFP/LTO full battery system to achieve a lithium-ion battery with high safety and cycle stability.
The presence of ionic liquid in the electrolyte reduces the crystallinity of PVDF-HFP polymer matrix, increases the ion conductivity of the electrolyte, and greatly improves the electrode-electrolyte interface contact.
These advantages enable the battery to work at room temperature and reach a specific capacity of 123mAh/g at the current of 1C.
The slightly change in interfacial resistances between the gel electrolyte and electrodes with the increase of the cycle numbers is confirmed through electrochemical impedance spectroscopy.
The high electrochemical stability of the electrolyte in the LFP/LTO system makes the battery exhibit good cycle stability, and the battery maintains 80% of its initial capacity after 2000 cycles at the current of 1C.
In addition, benefitting from the excellent properties of ionic liquids, such as non-flammability, negligible vapour pressure, and high conductivity, the obtained gel electrolyte based LFP/LTO pouch battery exhibits high safety and cycle stability.
With the increasing availability of data for Prognostics and Health Management (PHM), Deep Learning (DL) techniques are now the subject of considerable attention for this application, often achieving more accurate Remaining Useful Life (RUL) predictions.
However, one of the major challenges for DL techniques resides in the difficulty of obtaining large amounts of labelled data on industrial systems.
To overcome this lack of labelled data, an emerging learning technique is considered in our work: Self-Supervised Learning, a sub-category of unsupervised learning approaches.
This paper aims to investigate whether pre-training DL models in a self-supervised way on unlabelled sensors data can be useful for RUL estimation with only Few-Shots Learning, i.e. with scarce labelled data.
In this research, a fatigue damage prognostics problem is addressed, through the estimation of the RUL of aluminum alloy panels (typical of aerospace structures) subject to fatigue cracks from strain gauge data.
Synthetic datasets composed of strain data are used allowing to extensively investigate the influence of the dataset size on the predictive performance.
Results show that the self-supervised pre-trained models are able to significantly outperform the non-pre-trained models in downstream RUL prediction task, and with less computational expense, showing promising results in prognostic tasks when only limited labelled data is available.
This paper studies the extent to which the cyclicality of occupational mobility shapes that of aggregate unemployment and its duration distribution.
We document the relation between workers' occupational mobility and unemployment duration over the long run and business cycle.
To interpret this evidence, we develop a multi-sector business cycle model with heterogenous agents.
The model is quantitatively consistent with several important features of the US labor market: procyclical gross and countercyclical net occupational mobility, the large volatility of unemployment and the cyclical properties of the unemployment duration distribution, among many others.
Our analysis shows that occupational mobility due to workers; changing career prospects, and not occupation-wide differences, interacts with aggregate conditions to drive the fluctuations of the unemployment duration distribution and the aggregate unemployment rate.
Let $G$ be a complex simple direct limit group, specifically $SL(\infty;\mathbb{C})$, $SO(\infty;\mathbb{C})$ or $Sp(\infty;\mathbb{C})$.
Let $\mathcal{F}$ be a (generalized) flag in $\mathbb{C}^\infty$.
If $G$ is $SO(\infty;\mathbb{C})$ or $Sp(\infty;\mathbb{C})$ we suppose further that $\mathcal{F}$ is isotropic.
Let $\mathcal{Z}$ denote the corresponding flag manifold; thus $\mathcal{Z} = G/Q$ where $Q$ is a parabolic subgroup of $G$.
In a recent paper with Ignatyev and Penkov, we studied real forms $G_0$ of $G$ and properties of their orbits on $\mathcal{Z}$.
Here we concentrate on open $G_0$--orbits $D \subset \mathcal{Z}$.
When $G_0$ is of hermitian type we work out the complete $G_0$--orbit structure of flag manifolds dual to the bounded symmetric domain for $G_0$.
Then we develop the structure of the corresponding cycle spaces $\mathcal{M}_D$.
Finally we study the real and quaternionic analogs of these theories.
All this extends an large body of results from the finite dimensional cases on the structure of hermitian symmetric spaces and related cycle spaces.
The sheer number of new gamma-ray pulsar discoveries by the Fermi Large Area Telescope since 2008, combined with the quality of new multi-frequency data, has caused a revolution in the field of high-energy rotation-powered pulsars.
These rapidly rotating neutron stars exhibit rich spectral and temporal phenomenology, indicating that there are still many unsolved mysteries regarding the magnetospheric conditions in these stars - even after 50 years of research!
Indeed, 2017 marks the golden anniversary of the discovery of the first radio pulsar, and theorists and observers alike are looking forward to another half-century of discovery, with many new experiments coming online in the next decades.
In this review paper, we will briefly summarise recent HE pulsar observations, mention some theoretical models that provide a basic framework within which to make sense of the varied measurements, and finally review some of the latest theoretical developments in pulsar emission modelling.
We explore novel classes of exotic astrophysical sources capable of producing ultra-high-energy gamma rays extending beyond the PeV scale, motivated by quantum gravity scenarios and dark matter phenomenology.
These sources include: ultra-spinning black hole vortex-string systems; exotic compact objects such as boson star, axion star and Q-ball.
Such Exotica generate powerful magnetic fields through interactions with millicharged dark matter, enabling particle acceleration mechanisms that surpass the energy limits of conventional astrophysical sources like pulsar wind nebulae and supernova remnants.
We demonstrate that such exotic PeVatrons could be distributed throughout our Galaxy and may be detectable by current (LHAASO, HAWC) and next-generation (CTA) gamma-ray observatories.
Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are expected to provide a source of ultra high energy cosmic rays, accompanied with potentially detectable neutrinos at neutrino telescopes.
Recently, IceCube has set an upper bound on this neutrino flux well below theoretical expectation.
We investigate whether this mismatch between expectation and observation can be due to neutrino decay.
We demosntrate the phenomenological consistency and theoretical plausibility of the neutrino decay hypothesis.
A potential implication is the observability of majoron-emitting neutrinoless double beta decay.
Report of the first workshop to identify approaches and techniques in the domain of quantum sensing that can be utilized by future High Energy Physics applications to further the scientific goals of High Energy Physics.
Before Vic Emery's untimely death, we had the privilege of working closely with him on the role of Coulomb frustrated phase separation in doped Mott insulators, and on the consequences of the resulting local electronic structures on the "mechanism" of high temperature superconductivity.
In the present article, we discuss the resulting perspective on superconductivity in the cuprates, and on the more general theoretical issue of what sorts of systems can support high temperature superconductivity.
We discuss some of the general, qualitative aspects of the experimental lore which we think should constrain any theory of the mechanism, and show how they are accounted for within the context of our theory.
In the past decade, our understanding of galaxy evolution has been revolutionized by the discovery that luminous, dusty, starburst galaxies were 1,000 times more abundant in the early Universe than at present.
It has, however, been difficult to measure the complete redshift 2 distribution of these objects, especially at the highest redshifts (z > 4).
Here we report a redshift survey at a wavelength of three millimeters, targeting carbon monoxide line emission from the star-forming molecular gas in the direction of extraordinarily bright millimetrewave-selected sources.
High-resolution imaging demonstrates that these sources are strongly gravitationally lensed by foreground galaxies.
We detect spectral lines in 23 out of 26 sources and multiple lines in 12 of those 23 sources, from which we obtain robust, unambiguous redshifts.
At least 10 of the sources are found to lie at z > 4, indicating that the fraction of dusty starburst galaxies at high redshifts is greater than previously thought.
Models of lens geometries in the sample indicate that the background objects are ultra-luminous infrared galaxies, powered by extreme bursts of star formation.
In these three lectures I discuss the present status of high-energy astroparticle physics including Ultra-High-Energy Cosmic Rays (UHECR), high-energy gamma rays, and neutrinos.
The first lecture is devoted to ultra-high-energy cosmic rays.
After a brief introduction to UHECR I discuss the acceleration of charged particles to highest energies in the astrophysical objects, their propagation in the intergalactic space, recent observational results by the Auger and HiRes experiments, anisotropies of UHECR arrival directions, and secondary gamma rays produced by UHECR.
In the second lecture I review recent results on TeV gamma rays.
After a short introduction to detection techniques, I discuss recent exciting results of the H.E.S.S., MAGIC, and Milagro experiments on the point-like and diffuse sources of TeV gamma rays.
A special section is devoted to the detection of extragalactic magnetic fields with TeV gamma-ray measurements.
Finally, in the third lecture I discuss Ultra-High-Energy (UHE) neutrinos.
I review three different UHE neutrino detection techniques and show the present status of searches for diffuse neutrino flux and point sources of neutrinos.
We report the spectroscopic confirmation of SPT-CL J0546-5345 at <z> = 1.067.
To date this is the most distant cluster to be spectroscopically confirmed from the 2008 South Pole Telescope (SPT) catalog, and indeed the first z > 1 cluster discovered by the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Effect (SZE).
We identify 21 secure spectroscopic members within 0.9 Mpc of the SPT cluster position, 18 of which are quiescent, early-type galaxies.
From these quiescent galaxies we obtain a velocity dispersion of 1179^{+232}_{-167} km/s, ranking SPT-CL J0546-5345 as the most dynamically massive cluster yet discovered at z > 1.
Assuming that SPT-CL J0546-5345 is virialized, this implies a dynamical mass of M_200 = 1.0^{+0.6}_{-0.4} x 10^{15} Msun, in agreement with the X-ray and SZE mass measurements.
Combining masses from several independent measures leads to a best-estimate mass of M_200 = (7.95 +/- 0.92) x 10^{14} Msun.
The spectroscopic confirmation of SPT-CL J0546-5345, discovered in the wide-angle, mass-selected SPT cluster survey, marks the onset of the high redshift SZE-selected galaxy cluster era.
Recent advances in sleep neurobiology have allowed development of physiologically based mathematical models of sleep regulation that account for the neuronal dynamics responsible for the regulation of sleep-wake cycles and allow detailed examination of the underlying mechanisms.
Neuronal systems in general, and those involved in sleep regulation in particular, are noisy and heterogeneous by their nature.
It has been shown in various systems that certain levels of noise and diversity can significantly improve signal encoding.
However, these phenomena, especially the effects of diversity, are rarely considered in the models of sleep regulation.
The present paper is focused on a neuron-based physiologically motivated model of sleep-wake cycles that proposes a novel mechanism of the homeostatic regulation of sleep based on the dynamics of a wake-promoting neuropeptide orexin.
Here this model is generalized by the introduction of intrinsic diversity and noise in the orexin-producing neurons in order to study the effect of their presence on the sleep-wake cycle.
A quantitative measure of the quality of a sleep-wake cycle is introduced and used to systematically study the generalized model for different levels of noise and diversity.
The model is shown to exhibit a clear diversity-induced resonance: that is, the best wake-sleep cycle turns out to correspond to an intermediate level of diversity at the synapses of the orexin-producing neurons.
On the other hand only a mild evidence of stochastic resonance is found when the level of noise is varied.
These results show that disorder, especially in the form of quenched diversity, can be a key-element for an efficient or optimal functioning of the homeostatic regulation of the sleep-wake cycle.
Furthermore, this study provides an example of constructive role of diversity in a neuronal system that can be extended beyond the system studied here.
The analysis of nonperturbative effects in high energy asymptotics of the electomagnetic quark form factor is presented.
It is shown that the nonperturbative effects determine the initial value for the perturbative evolution of the quark form factor and find their general structure with respect to the high energy asymptotics.
Within the Wilson integral formalism which is natural for investigation of the soft, IR sensitive, part of the factorized form factor, the structure of the instanton induced effects in the evolution equation is discussed.
It is demonstrated that the instanton contributions result in the finite renormalization of the subleading perturbative result and numerically are characterized by small factor reflecting the diluteness of the QCD vacuum within the instanton liquid model.
The relevance of the IR renormalon induced effects in high energy asymptotic behaviour is discussed.
The consequences of the various analytization procedures of the strong coupling constant in the IR domain are considered.
The charge exchange reaction pp $\rightarrow$ n $Δ^{++}$ at high energies is examined.
The cross section of this reaction is estimated for RHIC and LHC energies based on data taken at the lower energies of the Intersecting Storage Ring (ISR) at CERN.
The interest of such measurements for identifying the associated electromagnetic bremsstrahlung radiation is discussed.
Relying on the formalism developed by Alexander Beilinson and Takeshi Saito, we compute the characteristic cycle of an external symmetric power of a tame étale sheaf on a curve.
This generalizes a result of Gérard Laumon in characteristic 0 and leads to a result of local acyclicity of the Abel-Jacobi morphism, due to Pierre Deligne and motivated by his geometric approach to the product formula for the determinant of cohomology (epsilon factor).
The High-Luminosity Large Hadron Collider (HL-LHC) is expected to deliver an integrated luminosity of up to 3000 fb$^{-1}$.
The very high instantaneous luminosity will lead to about 200 proton-proton collisions per bunch crossing (pileup) superimposed to each event of interest, thus providing extremely challenging experimental conditions, which will be addressed by accompanying improvements in the decetors.
The sensitivity to find new physics Beyond the Standard Model (BSM) is significantly improved and will allow to extend the reach for SUSY, heavy exotic resonances, vector like quarks, dark matter and exotic long-lived signatures, to name a few.
This note summarizes several ATLAS and CMS studies performed to asses HL-LHC sensitivity to various BSM models and signatures.
The transverse momentum spectra of charged pions, kaons, and protons produced at mid-rapidity in central nucleus-nucleus (AA) collisions at high energies are analyzed by considering particles to be created from two participant partons which are assumed to be contributors from the collision system.
Each participant (contributor) parton is assumed to contribute to the transverse momentum by a Tsallis-like function.
The contributions of the two participant partons are regarded as the two components of transverse momentum of the identified particle.
The experimental data measured in high-energy AA collisions by international collaborations are studied.
The excitation functions of kinetic freeze-out temperature and transverse flow velocity are extracted.
The two parameters increase quickly from $\approx3$ to $\approx10$ GeV (exactly from 2.7 to 7.7 GeV) and then slowly at above 10 GeV with the increase of collision energy.
In particular, there is a plateau from near 10 GeV to 200 GeV in the excitation function of kinetic freeze-out temperature.
We investigate the high-energy behavior of the elastic scattering amplitude using the eikonal and $U$-matrix unitarization schemes.
This work extends the analysis in [1] by exploring the sensitivity of the Pomeron and Odderon parameters to the inclusion of differential cross-section data over an extended range of $|t|$.
Machine learning has celebrated a lot of achievements on computer vision tasks such as object detection, but the traditionally used models work with relatively low resolution images.
The resolution of recording devices is gradually increasing and there is a rising need for new methods of processing high resolution data.
We propose an attention pipeline method which uses two staged evaluation of each image or video frame under rough and refined resolution to limit the total number of necessary evaluations.
For both stages, we make use of the fast object detection model YOLO v2.
We have implemented our model in code, which distributes the work across GPUs.
We maintain high accuracy while reaching the average performance of 3-6 fps on 4K video and 2 fps on 8K video.
We study the transverse momentum ($p_T$) spectra of neutral pions and identified charged hadrons produced in proton--proton ($pp$), deuteron--gold ($d$--Au), and gold--gold (Au--Au) collisions at the center of mass energy $\sqrt{s_{NN}}=200$ GeV.
The study is made in the framework of a multi-source thermal model used in the partonic level.
It is assumed that the contribution to the $p_T$-value of any hadron comes from two or three partons with an isotropic distribution of the azimuthal angle.
The contribution of each parton to the $p_T$-value of a given hadron is assumed to obey any one of the standard (Maxwell-Boltzmann, Fermi-Dirac, and Bose-Einstein) distributions with the kinetic freeze-out temperature and average transverse flow velocity.
The $p_T$-spectra of the final-state hadrons can be fitted by the superposition of two or three components.
The results obtained from our Monte Carlo method are used to fit the experimental results of the PHENIX and STAR Collaborations.
The results of present work serve as a suitable reference baseline for other experiments and simulation studies.
We recall several known results about minimally 2-connected graphs, and show that they all follow from a decomposition theorem.
Starting from an analogy with critically 2-connected graphs, we give structural characterizations of the classes of graphs that do not contain as a subgraph and as an induced subgraph, a cycle with a node that has at least two neighbors on the cycle.
From these characterizations we get polynomial time recognition algorithms for these classes, as well as polynomial time algorithms for vertex-coloring and edge-coloring.
This note summarizes the various physics studies done for the LHC.
It concentrates on the processes involving the production of high mass states.
Results are drawn from simulations performed by the CMS and ATLAS collaborations.
The ability of the LHC to provide insight into the mechanism of electroweak symmetry breaking is exemplified.
Analysis of high multiplicity events produced in 158A GeV/c $^{208}$Pb-$^{208}$Pb collisions is carried out to study the event-by-event fluctuations.
The findings reveal that the method of scaled factorial moments can be used to identify the events having densely populated narrow phase space bins.
A few events sorted out adopting this approach are individually analyzed.
It is observed that these events do exhibit large fluctuations in their pseudorapidity, $η$ and azimuthal angle, $φ$ distributions arising out due to some dynamical reasons.
Two particle $Δη$-$Δφ$ correlation study applied to these events too indicates that some complex two-dimensional structure of significantly high magnitude are present in these events which might have some dynamical origin.
The findings reveal that the method of scaled factorial moments may be used as an effective triggering for events with large dynamical fluctuations.
I review the recent results in the field of QCD at high energy presented to this Conference.
In particular, I will concentrate on measurements of $\as$ from studies of event structures and jet rates, jet production in hadronic collisions, and heavy quark production.
Ultra high energy cosmic ray events presently show a spectrum, which we interpret here as galactic cosmic rays due to a starburst in the radio galaxy Cen A pushed up in energy by the shock of a relativistic jet.
The knee feature and the particles with energy immediately higher in galactic cosmic rays then turn into the bulk of ultra high energy cosmic rays.
This entails that all ultra high energy cosmic rays are heavy nuclei.
This picture is viable if the majority of the observed ultra high energy events come from the radio galaxy Cen A, and are scattered by intergalactic magnetic fields across most of the sky.
The transverse momentum spectra of $J/ψ$, $ψ(2S)$, and $Υ(nS, n=1,2,3)$ produced in proton-proton ($p$+$p$), proton-antiproton ($p$+$\bar{p}$), proton-lead ($p$+Pb), gold-gold (Au+Au), and lead-lead (Pb+Pb) collisions over a wide energy range are analyzed by the (two-component) Erlang distribution, the Hagedorn function (the inverse power-law), and the Tsallis-Levy function.
The initial temperature is obtained from the color string percolation model due to the fit by the (two-component) Erlang distribution in the framework of multisource thermal model.
The excitation functions of some parameters such as the mean transverse momentum and initial temperature increase from dozens of GeV to above 10 TeV.
The mean transverse momentum and initial temperature decrease (increase slightly or do not change obviously) with the increase of rapidity (centrality).
Meanwhile, the mean transverse momentum of $Υ(nS, n=1,2,3)$ is larger than that of $J/ψ$ and $ψ(2S)$, and the initial temperature for $Υ(nS, n=1,2,3)$ emission is higher than that for $J/ψ$ and $ψ(2S)$ emission, which shows a mass-dependent behavior.
Crucial to many measurements at the LHC is the use of correlated multi-dimensional information to distinguish rare processes from large backgrounds, which is complicated by the poor modeling of many of the crucial backgrounds in Monte Carlo simulations.
In this work, we introduce HI-SIGMA, a method to perform unbinned high-dimensional statistical inference with data-driven background distributions.
In contradistinction to many applications of Simulation Based Inference in High Energy Physics, HI-SIGMA relies on generative ML models, rather than classifiers, to learn the signal and background distributions in the high-dimensional space.
These ML models allow for interpretable inference while also incorporating model errors and other sources of systematic uncertainties.
We showcase this methodology on a simplified version of a di-Higgs measurement in the $bbγγ$ final state, where the di-photon resonance allows for background interpolation from sidebands into the signal region.
We demonstrate that HI-SIGMA provides improved sensitivity as compared to standard classifier-based methods, and that systematic uncertainties can be straightforwardly incorporated by extending methods which have been used for histogram based analyses.
The exploration of fundamental quantum phenomena, such as entanglement and Bell inequality violations$-$extensively studied in low-energy regimes$-$has recently extended to high-energy particle collisions.
Experimentally, Bell inequality violations, which challenge Einstein's principle of local realism, were first observed in low-energy entangled photon systems by A.
Zeilinger, earning them the 2022 Nobel Prize in Physics.
Particle colliders provide a novel setting for probing quantum information theory, operating at energies over ten orders of magnitude higher than previous experiments and in the presence of electroweak and strong interactions.
Additionally, collider detectors offer unique advantages for quantum state reconstruction via quantum state tomography.
This book chapter reviews key theoretical and experimental advancements in this emerging field, highlighting its challenges, objectives, and potential impact on both quantum information theory and high-energy physics.
The great majority of engineered products are subject to thermo-mechanical loads which vary with the product environment during the various phases of its life-cycle (machining, assembly, intended service use...).
Those load variations may result in different values of the parts nominal dimensions, which in turn generate corresponding variation of the effective clearance (functional requirement) in the assembly.
Usually, and according to the contractual drawings, the parts are measured after the machining stage, whereas the interesting measurement values are the ones taken in service for they allow the prediction of clearance value under operating conditions.
Unfortunately, measurement in operating conditions may not be practical to obtain.
Hence, the main purpose of this research is to create, through computations and simulations, links between the values of the loads, dimensions and functional requirements during the successive phases of the life cycle of some given product. [...]
Previous studies have indicated that the near-side peak of high-pT triggered di-hadron correlations can be decomposed into two parts, a jet-like correlation and the ridge.
We present data from Cu+Cu and Au+Au collisions at sqrt(sNN)=62 and 200 GeV, which should allow more robust tests of models.
The jet-like correlation is narrow in both azimuth and pseudorapidity and has properties similar to those expected from vacuum fragmentation.
The yield of particles in the jet-like correlation are presented for both systems and at both energies and compared to the yields expected from di-hadron correlations in PYTHIA 8.1.
The ridge is narrow in azimuth but broad in pseudorapidity and roughly independent of pseudorapidity within STAR's acceptance.
Attempts have been made to explain the production of the ridge component as coming from recombination, momentum kicks, Glasma flux tubes, and a plasma instability.
However, few models have attempted to quantitatively calculate the characteristics of the ridge.
The yield in the ridge is compared for all systems and energies.
The implications for measurements at the LHC are discussed in context of the data and models.
We collected the transverse momentum (mass) spectra of charged hadrons ($π^{-}$, $π^{+}$, $K^{-}$, $K^{+}$, $\overline{p}$, and $p$) produced in collisions over a center-of-mass energy range from 2.70 to 200 GeV (per nucleon pair).
The modified Tsallis--Pareto-type function (the TP-like function) with average transverse flow velocity is used to describe the contribution of participant or constituent quarks to transverse momentum of considered hadron.
The experimental spectra of $π^{\mp}$ and $K^{\mp}$ (or $\overline{p}$ and $p$) are fitted by the convolution of two (or three) TP-like functions due to the fact that two (or three) constituent quarks are regarded as two (or three) energy resources in the formation of considered hadron.
From the reasonable fits to the spectra, the thermal freeze-out parameters are extracted, and the pseudo-entropy is newly defined and extracted.
Some parameters quickly change in the energy range of less than 7.7 GeV, and slowly change in the energy range of greater than 7.7 GeV, indicating the variation of collision mechanism at around 7.7 GeV.
A re-analysis of the NMC and SLAC data leads to a great improvement in our knowledge of the valence d and u parton distribution functions at high x.
Standard parton distributions with our modifications are in good agreement with QCD predictions for d/u at x=1, and with the CDHSW nu p and nubar p data, the HERA charged current cross section data, the collider high-P_t jet data, and the CDF W asymmetry data.
With the inclusion of target mass and higher twist corrections, the modified PDF's also describe all DIS data up to x = 0.98 and down to Q^2 = 1 GeV^2.
The high-energy behaviour of scattering amplitudes involving massive particles has attracted interest in recent years.
In these proceedings, we report on the analytic tool AsyInt for solving massive multi-loop Feynman integrals in the high-energy limit, which are fundamental building blocks for such amplitudes in the full Standard Model.
We present recent analytic results for two-loop four-point Feynman integrals with both internal and external masses in this limit, featuring polylogarithmic and elliptic structures.
The Future Circular Collider (FCC) is a post-LHC project aiming at direct and indirect searches for physics beyond the SM in a new 100 km tunnel at CERN.
In addition, the FCC-ee offers unique possibilities for high-precision studies of the strong interaction in the clean environment provided by $e^{+}e^{-}$ collisions, thanks to its broad span of center-of-mass energies ranging from the Z pole to the top-pair threshold, and its huge integrated luminosities yielding $10^{12}$ and $10^8$ jets from Z and W bosons decays, respectively, as well as $10^5$ pure gluon jets from Higgs boson decays.
In this contribution, we will summarize studies on the impact the FCC-ee will have on our knowledge of the strong force including: (i) QCD coupling extractions with per-mille uncertainties, (ii) parton radiation and parton-to-hadron fragmentation functions, (iii) jet properties (ligh-quark-gluon discrimination, $e^{+}e^{-}$ event shapes and multijet rates, jet substructure, etc.), (iv) heavy-quark jets (dead cone effect, charm-bottom separation, gluon $\rightarrow c\bar{c}$, $b\bar{b}$ splitting, etc.); and (v) non-perturbative QCD phenomena (color reconnection, baryon and strangeness production, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac final-state correlations, etc.).
Extensive air showers are complex objects, resulting of billions of particle reactions initiated by single cosmic ray at ultra-high-energy.
Their characteristics are sensitive both to the mass of the primary cosmic ray and to the details of hadronic interactions.
Many of the interactions that determine the shower features occur in kinematic regions and at energies beyond those tested by human-made accelerators.
We will report on the measurement of the proton-air cross section for particle production at a center-of-mass energy per nucleon of 39 TeV and 56 TeV.
We will also show comparisons of post-LHC hadronic interaction models with shower data by studying the moments of the distribution of the depth of the electromagnetic maximum, the number and production depth of muons in air showers, and finally a parameter based on the rise-time of the surface detector signal, sensitive to the electromagnetic and muonic component of the shower.
While there is good agreement found for observables based on the electromagnetic shower component, discrepancies are observed for muon-sensitive quantities.
High-energy neutrino-nucleus interactions are discussed by considering neutrino-oscillation experiments and ultra-high-energy cosmic neutrino interactions.
The largest systematic error for the current neutrino oscillation measurements comes from the neutrino-nucleus interaction part, and its accurate understanding is essential for high-precision neutrino physics, namely for studying CP violation in the lepton sector.
Depending on neutrino beam energies, quasi-elastic, resonance, Regge, or/and deep inelastic scattering (DIS) processes contribute to the neutrino cross section.
It is desirable to have a code to calculate the neutrino-nucleus cross section in any kinematical range by combining various theoretical descriptions.
On the other hand, the IceCube collaboration started obtaining cross section data up to the $10^{15}$ eV range, so that it became necessary to understand ultra-high-energy neutrino interactions beyond the artificial lepton-accelerator energy range.
For future precise neutrino physics including the CP measurement, it is also necessary to understand accurate nuclear corrections.
The current status is explained for nuclear corrections in DIS structure functions.
The possibility is also discussed to find gravitational sources within nucleons and nuclei, namely matrix elements of quark-gluon energy-momentum tensor.
They could be probed by neutrino interactions without replying on direct ultra-weak "gravitational interactions" with high-intensity neutrino beams, possibly at a future neutrino factory, by using techniques of hadron tomography.
Centrality-dependent double-differential transverse momentum spectra of negatively charged particles ($π^-$, $K^-$ and $\bar p$) at mid-(pseudo)rapidity interval in nuclear collisions are analyzed by the standard distribution in terms of multi-component.
The experimental data measured in gold-gold (Au-Au) collisions by the PHENIX Collaboration at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) and in lead-lead (Pb-Pb) collisions by the ALICE Collaboration at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) are studied.
The effective temperature, initial temperature, kinetic freeze-out temperature, transverse flow velocity and kinetic freeze-out volume are extracted from the fitting to transverse momentum spectra.
We observed, that the mentioned five quantities increase with the increase of event centrality due to the fact that the average transverse momentum increases with the increase of event centrality.
This renders that larger momentum (energy) transfer and further multiple-scattering had happened in central centrality.
The Earth's matter effect is going to play a crucial role in measuring the unknown three-flavor neutrino oscillation parameters at high confidence level in future high-precision long-baseline experiments.
We observe that owing to the new degeneracies among the most uncertain oscillation parameters ($δ_{CP}, θ_{23}$) and the average Earth's matter density ($ρ_{avg}$) for the 1300 km baseline, the sensitivity of the upcoming Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment (DUNE) to establish Earth's matter effect reaches only about 2$σ$ C.L. for all possible choices of oscillation parameters.
We notice that the current uncertainty in $δ_{CP}$ degrades the measurement of $ρ_{avg}$ more as compared to $θ_{23}$.
To lift these degeneracies, we explore the possible complementarity between DUNE and Tokai to Hyper-Kamiokande (T2HK/JD) facility with a second detector in Korea, popularly known as T2HKK or JD+KD setup.
While DUNE uses wide-band beam with on-axis detector, T2HKK setup plans to use narrow-band beam with two off-axis detectors: one in Japan and other in Korea.
We exhibit how the high-precision measurement of $δ_{CP}$ in JD+KD setup and the information on $ρ_{avg}$ coming from DUNE can reduce the impact of these degeneracies in both ($ρ_{avg}-δ_{CP}$) and ($ρ_{avg}-θ_{23}$) planes.
We show that the combined data from DUNE and JD+KD setups can establish Earth's matter effect at more than 6$σ$ C.L. irrespective of both the choices of mass hierarchy: normal (NH) and inverted (IH), $δ_{CP}$, and $θ_{23}$.
With the help of this combined data set, we can measure the average matter density ($ρ_{avg}$) with a relative 1$σ$ precision of around 11.2% (9.4%) assuming true NH (IH) and $δ_{CP} = -90^{\circ}/90^{\circ}$.
Recently, an extension of the BCFW on-shell recursion relation suitable to compute gauge invariant scattering amplitudes with off-shell particles has been presented for Yang-Mills theories with fermions.
In particular, 4- and 5-point amplitudes have been completely worked out.
The results are needed for the study of multi-parton scattering at hadron colliders in the framework of High Energy Factorization (HEF).
With 70 million dead, World War II remains the most devastating conflict in history.
Among the survivors, millions were displaced, returned maimed from the battlefield, or endured years of captivity.
We examine the effects of such war exposures on labor market careers, showing that they often become apparent only at certain life stages.
While war injuries reduced employment in old age, former prisoners of war prolonged their time in the workforce before retiring.
Many displaced workers, especially women, never returned to employment.
These responses align with standard life-cycle theory and thus likely hold relevance for other conflicts.
Using the South Pole Telescope (SPT), we have discovered the most massive known galaxy cluster at z > 1, SPT-CL J2106-5844.
In addition to producing a strong Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect signal, this system is a luminous X-ray source and its numerous constituent galaxies display spatial and color clustering, all indicating the presence of a massive galaxy cluster.
VLT and Magellan spectroscopy of 18 member galaxies shows that the cluster is at z = 1.132^+0.002_-0.003.
Chandra observations obtained through a combined HRC-ACIS GTO program reveal an X-ray spectrum with an Fe K line redshifted by z = 1.18 +/- 0.03.
These redshifts are consistent with galaxy colors in extensive optical, near-infrared, and mid-infrared imaging.
SPT-CL J2106-5844 displays extreme X-ray properties for a cluster, having a core-excluded temperature of kT = 11.0^+2.6_-1.9 keV and a luminosity (within r_500) of L_X (0.5 - 2.0 keV) = (13.9 +/- 1.0) x 10^44 erg/s.
The combined mass estimate from measurements of the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect and X-ray data is M_200 = (1.27 +/- 0.21) x 10^15 M_sun.
The discovery of such a massive gravitationally collapsed system at high redshift provides an interesting laboratory for galaxy formation and evolution, and is a powerful probe of extreme perturbations of the primordial matter density field.
We discuss the latter, determining that, under the assumption of LambdaCDM cosmology with only Gaussian perturbations, there is only a 7% chance of finding a galaxy cluster similar to SPT-CL J2106-5844 in the 2500 deg^2 SPT survey region, and that only one such galaxy cluster is expected in the entire sky.
We analyze the transverse momentum ($p_{T}$) spectra of lepton pairs ($\ell\bar \ell$) generated in the Drell-Yan process, as detected in proton-nucleus (pion-nucleus) and proton-(anti)proton collisions by ten collaborations over a center-of-mass energy ($\sqrt{s_{NN}}$ or $\sqrt{s}$ if in a simplified form) range from $\sim20$ GeV to above 10 TeV.
Three types of probability density functions (the convolution of two Lévy-Tsallis functions, the two-component Erlang distribution, and the convolution of two Hagedorn functions) are utilized to fit and analyze the $p_{T}$ spectra.
The fit results are approximately in agreement with the collected experimental data.
Consecutively, we obtained the variation law of related parameters as a function of $\sqrt{s}$ and invariant mass ($Q$).
In the fit procedure, a given Lévy-Tsallis (or Hagedorn) function can be regarded as the probability density function of transverse momenta contributed by a single quark ($q$) or anti-quark ($\bar q$).
The Drell-Yan process is then described by the statistical method.
We present observations of the extended solar cycle activity in white-light coronagraphs, and compare them with the more familiar features seen in the Fe XIV green-line corona.
We show that the coronal activity zones seen in the emission corona can be tracked high into the corona.
The peak latitude of the activity, which occurs near solar maximum, is found to be very similar at all heights.
But we find that the equatorward drift of the activity zones is faster at greater heights, and that during the declining phase of the solar cycle, the lower branch of activity (that associated with the current cycle) disappears at about 3 Ro.
This implies that that during the declining phase of the cycle, the solar wind detected near Earth is likely to be dominated by the next cycle.
The so-called "rush to the poles" is also seen in the higher corona.
In the higher corona it is found to start at a similar time but at lower latitudes than in the green-line corona.
The structure is found to be similar to that of the equatorward drift.
This study investigates the Rankine vapor power thermodynamic cycle using steam/water as the working fluid, which is common in commercial power plants for power generation as the source of the rotary shaft power needed to drive electric generators.
The four-process cycle version, which comprises a water pump section, a boiler/superheater section, a steam turbine section, and a condenser section, was considered.
The performance of this thermodynamic power cycle depends on several design parameters.
This study varied a single independent variable, the absolute pressure of the condenser, by a factor of 256, from 0.78125 to 200 kPa.
The peak pressure and peak temperature in the cycle were fixed at 50 bar (5,000 kPa) and 600°C, respectively, corresponding to a base case with a base value for the condenser's absolute pressure of 12.5 kPa (0.125 bar).
The analysis was performed using the thermodynamics software package Cantera as an extension of the Python programming language.
The results suggest that over the range of condenser pressures examined, a logarithmic function can be deployed to describe the dependence of input heat, the net output work, and cycle efficiency on the absolute pressure of the condenser.
Each of these three performance metrics decreases as the absolute pressure of the condenser increases.
However, a power function is a better choice to describe how the steam dryness (steam quality) at the end of the turbine section increases as the absolute pressure of the condenser rises.
The main theme of the lectures covered the experimental work at hadron colliders, with a clear focus on the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) and on the roadmap that led finally to the discovery of the Higgs boson.
The lectures were not a systematic course on machine and detector technologies, but rather tried to give a physics-motivated overview of many experimental aspects that were all relevant for making the discovery.
The actual lectures covered a much broader scope than what is documented here in this writeup.
The successful concepts for the experiments at the LHC have benefitted from the experience gained with previous generations of detectors at lower-energy machines.
The lectures included also an outlook to the future experimental programme at the LHC, with its machine and experiments upgrades, as well as a short discussion of possible facilities at the high energy frontier beyond LHC.
The galaxy cluster SPT-CL J0205-5829 currently has the highest spectroscopically-confirmed redshift, z=1.322, in the South Pole Telescope Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SPT-SZ) survey.
XMM-Newton observations measure a core-excluded temperature of Tx=8.7keV producing a mass estimate that is consistent with the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich derived mass.
The combined SZ and X-ray mass estimate of M500=(4.9+/-0.8)e14 h_{70}^{-1} Msun makes it the most massive known SZ-selected galaxy cluster at z>1.2 and the second most massive at z>1.
Using optical and infrared observations, we find that the brightest galaxies in SPT-CL J0205-5829 are already well evolved by the time the universe was <5 Gyr old, with stellar population ages >3 Gyr, and low rates of star formation (<0.5Msun/yr).
We find that, despite the high redshift and mass, the existence of SPT-CL J0205-5829 is not surprising given a flat LambdaCDM cosmology with Gaussian initial perturbations.
The a priori chance of finding a cluster of similar rarity (or rarer) in a survey the size of the 2500 deg^2 SPT-SZ survey is 69%.
Longevity of materials, especially alloys, is crucial for enhancing the sustainability and efficiency of various applications, including gas turbines.
Jerky flow, also known as dynamic strain aging effect, can indeed have a significant impact on the fatigue life of high-temperature components in gas turbines.
In general, three jerky flow types, i.e., A, B and C, existed in superalloys.
Type A and B, occurring at low temperature, were proved to be caused by interstitial elements, such as carbon.
However, Type C serration at high temperature has not been verified directly and remains unresolved, which was unanimously agreed it is caused by the interaction between solute elements and dislocations.
In this study, our new discovery challenged this mainstream axiom.
We proposed that vacancies play a dominant role in inducing jerky flow instead of solute atoms.
By transmission electron microscopy, we observed directly that dislocations are pinned by vacancy-type dislocation loops (PDLs) or dipoles.
Our findings suggest that vacancies located at dislocation jogs are primarily responsible for pinning and unpinning of superlattice dislocations.
As dislocations move and interact with vacancies, PDLs or dipoles are left behind in their path.
This pinning and unpinning process is repeated as successive dislocations encounter the newly formed PDLs or dipoles, leading to the recurring fluctuations in the stress, i.e., serrated flow.
Additionally, antisite defects created by Co, Cr and Ti sitting on Ni positions is postulated to facilitate vacancy formation and migration towards dislocations via nearest neighbor jumps.
This study provides a new avenue to show how future alloy design can improve the fatigue life of superalloys in extreme environments.
We present a catalog of 224 galaxy cluster candidates, selected through their Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) effect signature in the first 720 deg2 of the South Pole Telescope (SPT) survey.
This area was mapped with the SPT in the 2008 and 2009 austral winters to a depth of 18 uK-arcmin at 150 GHz; 550 deg2 of it was also mapped to 44 uK-arcmin at 95 GHz.
Based on optical imaging of all candidates and near-infrared imaging of the majority of candidates, we have found optical and/or infrared counterparts for 158 clusters.
Of these, 135 were first identified as clusters in SPT data, including 117 new discoveries reported in this work.
This catalog triples the number of confirmed galaxy clusters discovered through the SZ effect.
We report photometrically derived (and in some cases spectroscopic) redshifts for confirmed clusters and redshift lower limits for the remaining candidates.
The catalog extends to high redshift with a median redshift of z = 0.55 and maximum redshift of z = 1.37.
Based on simulations, we expect the catalog to be nearly 100% complete above M500 ~ 5e14 Msun h_{70}^-1 at z > 0.6.
There are 121 candidates detected at signal-to-noise greater than five, at which the catalog purity is measured to be 95%.
From this high-purity subsample, we exclude the z < 0.3 clusters and use the remaining 100 candidates to improve cosmological constraints following the method presented by Benson et al., 2011.
Adding the cluster data to CMB+BAO+H0 data leads to a preference for non-zero neutrino masses while only slightly reducing the upper limit on the sum of neutrino masses to sum mnu < 0.38 eV (95% CL).
For a spatially flat wCDM cosmological model, the addition of this catalog to the CMB+BAO+H0+SNe results yields sigma8=0.807+-0.027 and w = -1.010+-0.058, improving the constraints on these parameters by a factor of 1.4 and 1.3, respectively. [abbrev]
Multiplicity data up to 200 GeV in e+e- annihilation are described well by the two-stage model based on pQCD and suggested the phenomenological scheme of hadronization.
This model confirms the fragmentation mechanism of hadronization (in vacuum).
It allows to estimate mean multiplicity at 500 GeV and 1 TeV.
Gluon dominance model is the modification of this model for the description of hadronic interactions.
It was realised by an inclusion of gluons.
It demonstrates very strong evidence of the recombination mechanism of hadronization.
In this case, the mean multiplicity of hadrons formed from a single gluon grows with energy and it exceeds the corresponding values for lepton interactions.
At the same time, the region of high multiplicity is stipulated for splitting of active gluons.
The excess of soft photon yield is experimentally confirmed at Nuclotron (JINR) in the interactions of the 3.5A GeV/c deuteron and lithium beams with the carbon target.
For an algebraically closed field $k$ of characteristic 0, we give a cycle-theoretic description of the additive 4-term motivic exact sequence associated to the additive dilogarithm of J.-L.
Cathelineau, that is the derivative of the Bloch-Wigner function, via the cubical additive higher Chow groups under one assumption.
The 4-term functional equation of Cathelineau, an additive analogue of Abel's 5-term functional equation, is also discussed cycle-theoretically.
High-energy neutrinos, arising from decays of mesons that were produced through the cosmic rays collisions with air nuclei, form unavoidable background noise in the astrophysical neutrino detection problem.
The atmospheric neutrino flux above 1 PeV should be supposedly dominated by the contribution of charmed particle decays.
These (prompt) neutrinos originated from decays of massive and shortlived particles, $D^\pm$, $D^0$, $\bar{D}{}^0$, $D_s^\pm$, $Λ^+_c$, form the most uncertain fraction of the high-energy atmospheric neutrino flux because of poor explored processes of the charm production.
Besides, an ambiguity in high-energy behavior of pion and especially kaon production cross sections for nucleon-nucleus collisions may affect essentially the calculated neutrino flux.
There is the energy region where above flux uncertainties superimpose.
A new calculation presented here reveals sizable differences, up to the factor of 1.8 above 1 TeV, in muon neutrino flux predictions obtained with usage of known hadronic models, SIBYLL 2.1 and QGSJET-II.
The atmospheric neutrino flux in the energy range $10-10^7$ GeV was computed within the 1D approach to solve nuclear cascade equations in the atmosphere, which takes into account non-scaling behavior of the inclusive cross-sections for the particle production, the rise of total inelastic hadron-nucleus cross-sections and nonpower-law character of the primary cosmic ray spectrum.
This approach was recently tested in the atmospheric muon flux calculations [1].
The results of the neutrino flux calculations are compared with the Frejus, AMANDA-II and IceCube measurement data.
We present Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) 860 micrometer imaging of four high-redshift (z=2.8-5.7) dusty sources that were detected using the South Pole Telescope (SPT) at 1.4 mm and are not seen in existing radio to far-infrared catalogs.
At 1.5 arcsec resolution, the ALMA data reveal multiple images of each submillimeter source, separated by 1-3 arcsec, consistent with strong lensing by intervening galaxies visible in near-IR imaging of these sources.
We describe a gravitational lens modeling procedure that operates on the measured visibilities and incorporates self-calibration-like antenna phase corrections as part of the model optimization, which we use to interpret the source structure.
Lens models indicate that SPT0346-52, located at z=5.7, is one of the most luminous and intensely star-forming sources in the universe with a lensing corrected FIR luminosity of 3.7 X 10^13 L_sun and star formation surface density of 4200 M_sun yr^-1 kpc^-2.
We find magnification factors of 5 to 22, with lens Einstein radii of 1.1-2.0 arcsec and Einstein enclosed masses of 1.6-7.2x10^11 M_sun.
These observations confirm the lensing origin of these objects, allow us to measure the their intrinsic sizes and luminosities, and demonstrate the important role that ALMA will play in the interpretation of lensed submillimeter sources.
We investigate a new scenario of the two Higgs doublet model, where the current experimental data for the electroweak rho parameter and those for the Higgs boson couplings can be simultaneously explained.
In this scenario, the two Higgs doublet model is supposed to be a low energy effective theory up to a high energy scale $Λ$, above which a fundamental theory should appear.
It is assumed that the Higgs potential respects a global symmetry at $Λ$ (the twisted custodial symmetry), which is to be given as a consequence of the global symmetry structure of the fundamental theory above $Λ$.
By the analysis using one-loop renormalization group equations, the above experimental data can be explained in a natural way even when the masses of the extra Higgs bosons are near the electroweak scale.
We also discuss the predictions on the mass spectrum of the additional Higgs bosons and also those on coupling constants of the standard-model-like Higgs boson, which make it possible to test this scenario at current and future collider experiments.
In high energy Gamma-Ray Astronomy with shower arrays the most discriminating signature of the photon-induced showers against the background of hadron-induced cosmic-ray is the content of muons in the observed events.
In the electromagnetic $γ$-showers the muon production is mainly due to the photo-production of pions followed by the decay $π\toμν$.
In high energy photo-production process the photon exhibits an internal structure which is very similar to that of hadrons.
Indeed, photon-hadron interactions can be understood if the physical photon is viewed as a superposition of a bare photon and an accompanying small hadronic component which feels conventional hadronic interactions.
Information on photo-production $γ$p and $γγ$ cross-sections are limited to $\sqrt{s}\leq$ 200 GeV from data collected at HERA.
Starting from $E_{lab}\approx$100 TeV the difference between different extrapolations of the cross sections increases to more than 50\% at $E_{lab}\approx$10$^{19}$ eV, with important impact on a number of shower observables and on the selection of the photon-initiated air showers.
Recently, the LHAASO experiment opened the PeV-sky to observations detecting 40 PeVatrons in a background-free regime starting from about $E_{lab}\approx$ 100 TeV.
This result provides a beam of pure high energy primary photons allowing to measure for the first time the photo-production cross section even at energies not explored yet.
The future air shower array SWGO in the Southern Hemisphere, where the existence of Super-Pevatrons emitting photons well above the PeV is expected, could extend the study of the hadron nature of the photons in the PeV region.
In this contribution the opportunity for a measurement of the photo-production cross section with air shower arrays is presented and discussed.
We present two methods to extract the chemical potentials of quarks in high energy collisions.
The first method is based on the ratios of negatively/positively charged particles, and the temperatures extracted from the transverse momentum spectra of related hadrons are needed.
The second method is based on the chemical potentials of some particles, and we also need the transverse momentum spectra of related hadrons.
To extract the quark chemical potentials, we would like to propose experimental collaborations to measure simultaneously not only the transverse momentum spectra of anti-p, p, K^-, K^+, pion^-, and pion^+, but also those of D^-, D^+, B^-, and B^+ (even those of Delta^++, Delta^-, and Omega^-) in high energy nuclear collisions
It is not yet clear whether the observed flux suppression for ultra-high energy cosmic rays (UHECR) at energies above \simeq 4.10E19 eV is a signature of the Greisen-Zatsepin-Kuzmin (GZK) cutoff or corresponds, for instance, to the maximum energies available at the relevant sources.
Both phenomena can be sensitive to violations of standard special relativity modifying cosmic-ray propagation or acceleration at very high energy, and would in principle allow to set bounds on Lorentz symmetry violation (LSV) parameters.
But the precise phenomenological analysis of the experimental data is far from trivial, and other effects can be present.
The effective parameters can be directly linked to Planck-scale physics or to physics beyond Planck scale.
If a vacuum rest frame (VRF) exists, LSV can modify the internal structure of particles at very high energy.
Conventional symmetries may also cease to be valid at energies close to the Planck scale.
Other possible violations of fundamental principles and conventional basic hypotheses (quantum mechanics, quark confinement, energy and momentum conservation, vacuum homogeneity and "static" properties, effective space dimensions...) can also be considered and possibly tested in high-energy cosmic-ray experiments.
Even below UHE (ultra-high energy), exotic signatures cannot be excluded.
We present an updated discussion of the theoretical and phenomenological situation, including prospects for earth-based and space experiments and a simple potential interpretation of the observed UHECR composition in terms of LSV where the GZK cutoff would be replaced by spontaneous emission of photons or e+ e- pairs.
As the OPERA result on a possible superluminal propagation of the muon neutrino was announced after the conference, we briefly comment on the consistency problems that a \simeq 2.5 x 10E-5 critical speed anomaly for the muon neutrino can raise.
We give a structural description of the class $\cal C$ of graphs that do not contain a cycle with a unique chord as an induced subgraph.
Our main theorem states that any connected graph in $\cal C$ is either in some simple basic class or has a decomposition.
Basic classes are chordless cycles, cliques, bipartite graphs with one side containing only nodes of degree two and induced subgraphs of the famous Heawood or Petersen graph.
Decompositions are node cutsets consisting of one or two nodes and edge cutsets called 1-joins.
Our decomposition theorem actually gives a complete structure theorem for ${\cal C}$, i.e. every graph in ${\cal C}$ can be built from basic graphs that can be explicitly constructed, and gluing them together by prescribed composition operations; and all graphs built this way are in ${\cal C}$.
This has several consequences: an ${\cal O}(nm)$-time algorithm to decide whether a graph is in $\cal C$, an ${\cal O}(n+m)$-time algorithm that finds a maximum clique of any graph in $\cal C$ and an ${\cal O}(nm)$-time coloring algorithm for graphs in $\cal C$.
We prove that every graph in $\cal C$ is either 3-colorable or has a coloring with $ω$ colors where $ω$ is the size of a largest clique.
The problem of finding a maximum stable set for a graph in $\cal C$ is known to be NP-hard.
High energy astrophysics is one of the most active branches in contemporary astrophysics.
It studies astrophysical objects that emit X-ray and gamma-ray photons, such as accreting super-massive and stellar-size black holes, and various species of neutron stars.
With the operations of many space-borne and ground-based observational facilities, high energy astrophysics has enjoyed a rapid development in the past decades.
It is foreseen that the field will continue to advance rapidly in the coming decade, with possible ground-breaking discoveries of astrophysical sources in the high-energy neutrino and gravitational wave channels.
This Special Issue of Frontiers of Physics is dedicated to a systematic survey of the field of high energy astrophysics as it stands in 2013.
We present a method to combine the all-order treatment of the High Energy Jets exclusive partonic Monte Carlo (HEJ) with the parton shower of Pythia8, while retaining the logarithmic accuracy of both.
This procedure enables the generation of fully realistic and hadronised events with HEJ.
Furthermore, the combination of the two all-order treatments leads to improvements in the quality of the description of observables, in particular for regions with disparate transverse scales.
Experimentally observed slow growth of hadron cross-sections at high energies is a very intriguing but poorly understood property of QCD.
It is tempting to explain the slow growth by saturation of Froissart bound or another similar universal mechanism.
We reconsider derivation of Froissart bound in QCD in chiral limit and argue it can not justify experimentally observed behavior.
Although the conventional Froissart-Martin bound should impose non-trivial constraint on the growth of hadron cross-sections, because of the small value of pion masses it will become restrictive only at currently unaccessible center-of-mass energies exceeding $10^5-10^6$ GeV.
The use of highly sensitive pixelated direct detectors has dramatically improved the performance of high energy instrumentation such as transmission electron microscopy.
Here, we describe a recently developed monolithic active pixel sensor designed for low energy scanning electron microscopy applications.
This detector enables electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) at lower energies and dose than are accessible with existing scintillator-coupled detectors, expanding grain orientation mapping capabilities to materials such as ceramics that are poor electron conductors.
The high detector sensitivity allows collection of rich diffraction information - providing dislocation defect contrast that is otherwise not accessible via EBSD.
Indeed, even the energy of single electron interaction events can be measured with this detector, which we demonstrate to energy filter diffraction patterns revealing details of how diffraction occurs at low energy.
The Sun is already in the declining phase of cycle 24, but the paucity of high-energy solar energetic particle (SEP) events continues with only two ground level enhancement (GLE) events as of March 31, 2015.
In an attempt to understand this, we considered all the large SEP events of cycle 24 that occurred until the end of 2014.
We compared the properties of the associated CMEs with those in cycle 23.
We found that the CME speeds in the sky plane were similar, but almost all those cycle-24 CMEs were halos.
A significant fraction of (16%) of the frontside SEP events were associated with eruptive prominence events.
CMEs associated with filament eruption events accelerate slowly and attain peak speeds beyond the typical GLE release heights.
When we considered only western hemispheric events that had good connectivity to the CME nose, there were only 8 events that could be considered as GLE candidates.
One turned out to be the first GLE event of cycle 24 (2012 May 17).
In two events, the CMEs were very fast (>2000 km/s) but they were launched into a tenuous medium (high Alfven speed).
In the remaining five events, the speeds were well below the typical GLE CME speed (~2000 km/s).
Furthermore, the CMEs attained their peak speeds beyond the typical heights where GLE particles are released.
We conclude that several factors contribute to the low rate of high-energy SEP events in cycle 24: (i) reduced efficiency of shock acceleration (weak heliospheric magnetic field), (ii) poor latitudinal and longitudinal connectivity), and (iii) variation in local ambient conditions (e.g., high Alfven speed).
The Durham High Energy Physics Database (HEPData) has been built up over the past four decades as a unique open-access repository for scattering data from experimental particle physics papers.
It comprises data points underlying several thousand publications.
Over the last two years, the HEPData software has been completely rewritten using modern computing technologies as an overlay on the Invenio v3 digital library framework.
The software is open source with the new site available at https://hepdata.net now replacing the previous site at http://hepdata.cedar.ac.uk.
In this write-up, we describe the development of the new site and explain some of the advantages it offers over the previous platform.
In this paper vibration combined high temperature cycle tests for packaged capacitive SOI-MEMS accelerometers are presented.
The aim of these tests is to provide useful Design for Reliability information for MEMS designers.
A high temperature test chamber and a chopper-stabilized read-out circuitry were designed and realized at BME - DED.
Twenty thermal cycles of combined Temperature Cycle Test and Fatigue Vibration Test has been carried out on 5 samples.
Statistical evaluation of the test results showed that degradation has started in 3 out of the 5 samples.
As a platform for optoelectronic devices based on exciton dynamics, monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) are often placed near metal interfaces or inside planar cavities.
While the radiative properties of point dipoles at metal interfaces has been studied extensively, those of excitons, which are delocalized and exhibit a temperature-dependent momentum distribution, lack a thorough treatment.
Here, we analyze the emission properties of excitons in TMDCs near planar metal interfaces and explore their dependence on exciton center-of-mass momentum, transition dipole orientation, and temperature.
Defining a characteristic energy scale $k_B T_c = (\hbar k)^2/2m$~($k$ being the radiative wavevector and $m$ the exciton mass), we find that at temperatures $T\gg T_c$ and low densities where the momentum distribution can be characterized by Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics, the modified emission rates~(normalized to free space) behave similarly to point dipoles at temperatures $T\gg T_c$.
This similarity in behavior arises due to the broad nature of wavevector components making up the exciton and point dipole emission.
On the other hand, the narrow momentum distribution of excitons for $T<T_c$ can result in significantly different emission behavior as compared to point dipoles.
These differences can be further amplified by considering excitons with a Bose Einstein distribution at high phase space densities.
We find suppression or enhancement of emission relative to the point dipole case by several orders of magnitude.
These insights can help optimize the performance of optoelectronic devices that incorporate 2D semiconductors near metal electrodes and can inform future studies of exciton radiative dynamics at low temperatures.
Additionally, these studies show that nanoscale optical cavities are a viable pathway to generating long-lifetime exciton states in TMDCs.
Interstellar clouds form the cosmic "ecosystem" through which the Sun moves.
Understanding the physical properties of nearby interstellar material, in sufficient detail to evaluate historical variations in the solar galactic environment, requires a survey of ultraviolet interstellar absorption lines towards stars within 20 pc with the STIS spectrometer.
A complete survey would yield ionization, temperature, density and velocity for nearby interstellar clouds, and would require a large number of Hubble Space Telescope orbits spaced over several cycles.
This note was submitted as a "white paper" to the Space Telescope Science Institute in support of multi-cycle treasury programs.
Photonic and optoelectronic devices may offer the opportunity to realize efficient signal processing at speeds higher than in conventional electronic devices.
Switches form the building blocks for circuits and fast photonic switches have been realized [1,2,3,4,5,6].
Recently, proof of principle of exciton optoelectronic devices was demonstrated [7,8].
Potential advantages of excitonic devices include high operation and interconnection speed, small dimensions, and the opportunity to combine many elements into integrated circuits.
Here, we demonstrate experimental proof of principle for the operation of excitonic switching devices at temperatures around 100 K.
The devices are based on an AlAs/GaAs coupled quantum well structure and include the exciton optoelectronic transistor (EXOT), the excitonic bridge modulator (EXBM), and the excitonic pinch-off modulator (EXPOM).
This is a two orders of magnitude increase in the operation temperature compared to the earlier devices, where operation was demonstrated at 1.5 K [7,8].
The flux of high-energy neutrinos passing through the Earth is attenuated due to their interactions with matter.
The interaction rate is modulated by the neutrino interaction cross section and affects the flux arriving at the IceCube Neutrino Observatory, a cubic-kilometer neutrino detector embedded in the Antarctic ice sheet.
We present a measurement of the neutrino cross section between 60 TeV and 10 PeV using the high-energy starting events (HESE) sample from IceCube with 7.5 years of data.
The result is binned in neutrino energy and obtained using both Bayesian and frequentist statistics.
We find it compatible with predictions from the Standard Model.
Flavor information is explicitly included through updated morphology classifiers, proxies for the the three neutrino flavors.
This is the first such measurement to use the three morphologies as observables and the first to account for neutrinos from tau decay.
We have measured the spectrum of UHE cosmic rays using the Flash ADC (FADC) detector (called HiRes-II) of the High Resolution Fly's Eye experiment running in monocular mode.
We describe in detail the data analysis, development of the Monte Carlo simulation program, and results.
We also describe the results of the HiRes-I detector.
We present our measured spectra and compare them with a model incorporating galactic and extragalactic cosmic rays.
Our combined spectra provide strong evidence for the existence of the spectral feature known as the ``ankle.''
After reviewing potential early indicators of an upcoming solar cycle at high latitudes, we focus attention on the rush-to-the-poles (RTTP) phenomenon in coronal green line emission.
Considering various correlations between properties of the RTTP with the upcoming solar cycle we find a correlation between the rate of the RTTP and the time delay until the maximum of the next solar cycle.
On the basis of this correlation and the known internal regularities of the sunspot number series we predict that, following a minimum in 2019, cycle 25 will peak in late 2024 at an amplitude of about 130 (in terms of smoothed monthly revised sunspot numbers).
This slightly exceeds the amplitude of cycle 24 but it would still make cycle 25 a fairly weak cycle.
In the past years significant progress has been made toward achieving a quantitative understanding of jets and their substructure in high-energy proton-proton collisions from first principles in QCD.
Precise measurements have become available from the experimental collaborations at the LHC and RHIC allowing a direct comparison of theoretical calculations and data.
These developments make it possible to use jet substructure observables as precision probes in heavy-ion collisions.
The radiation pattern inside jets contains valuable information about the hot and dense QCD medium which can be investigated using jet substructure techniques.
By studying the soft sensitivity of the different observables it is possible to obtain important insights into the interaction of hard probes with the quark gluon plasma.
Various phenomena of physics beyond that of the Standard Model could occur at high scale.
Ultra-high energy cosmic rays are the only particles available to explore scales above a few dozens of TeV.
Although these explorations are much more limited than those carried out with colliders, they provide a series of constraints in several topics such as tests of Lorentz invariance, dark matter, phase transitions in the early universe or sterile neutrinos.
Several of these constraints are reviewed in these proceedings of UHECR2024 based on searches for anomalous characteristics in extensive air showers or searches for ultra-high energy gamma rays and neutrinos.
We will review the main physical aspects of Ultra High Energy Cosmic Rays.
We will discuss in particular their propagation through astrophysical backgrounds, focusing on the latest experimental observations of HiRes, Telescope Array and Auger.
We will also review the issue of the transition between galactic and extra-galactic cosmic rays.
We show that the complete graph on $n$ vertices can be decomposed into $t$ cycles of specified lengths $m_1,\ldots,m_t$ if and only if $n$ is odd, $3\leq m_i\leq n$ for $i=1,\ldots,t$, and $m_1+\cdots+m_t=\binom n2$.
We also show that the complete graph on $n$ vertices can be decomposed into a perfect matching and $t$ cycles of specified lengths $m_1,\ldots,m_t$ if and only if $n$ is even, $3\leq m_i\leq n$ for $i=1,\ldots,t$, and $m_1+\ldots+m_t=\binom n2-\frac n2$.
We present first results on the cooling properties derived from Chandra X-ray observations of 83 high-redshift (0.3 < z < 1.2) massive galaxy clusters selected by their Sunyaev-Zel'dovich signature in the South Pole Telescope data.
We measure each cluster's central cooling time, central entropy, and mass deposition rate, and compare to local cluster samples.
We find no significant evolution from z~0 to z~1 in the distribution of these properties, suggesting that cooling in cluster cores is stable over long periods of time.
We also find that the average cool core entropy profile in the inner ~100 kpc has not changed dramatically since z ~ 1, implying that feedback must be providing nearly constant energy injection to maintain the observed "entropy floor" at ~10 keV cm^2.
While the cooling properties appear roughly constant over long periods of time, we observe strong evolution in the gas density profile, with the normalized central density (rho_0/rho_crit) increasing by an order of magnitude from z ~ 1 to z ~ 0.
When using metrics defined by the inner surface brightness profile of clusters, we find an apparent lack of classical, cuspy, cool-core clusters at z > 0.75, consistent with earlier reports for clusters at z > 0.5 using similar definitions.
Our measurements indicate that cool cores have been steadily growing over the 8 Gyr spanned by our sample, consistent with a constant, ~150 Msun/yr cooling flow that is unable to cool below entropies of 10 keV cm^2 and, instead, accumulates in the cluster center.
We estimate that cool cores began to assemble in these massive systems at z ~ 1, which represents the first constraints on the onset of cooling in galaxy cluster cores.
We investigate several potential biases which could conspire to mimic this cool core evolution and are unable to find a bias that has a similar redshift dependence and a substantial amplitude.
SPT-CLJ2040-4451 -- spectroscopically confirmed at z = 1.478 -- is the highest redshift galaxy cluster yet discovered via the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect.
SPT-CLJ2040-4451 was a candidate galaxy cluster identified in the first 720 deg^2 of the South Pole Telescope Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SPT-SZ) survey, and confirmed in follow-up imaging and spectroscopy.
From multi-object spectroscopy with Magellan-I/Baade+IMACS we measure spectroscopic redshifts for 15 cluster member galaxies, all of which have strong [O II] 3727 emission.
SPT-CLJ2040-4451 has an SZ-measured mass of M_500,SZ = 3.2 +/- 0.8 X 10^14 M_Sun/h_70, corresponding to M_200,SZ = 5.8 +/- 1.4 X 10^14 M_Sun/h_70.
The velocity dispersion measured entirely from blue star forming members is sigma_v = 1500 +/- 520 km/s.
The prevalence of star forming cluster members (galaxies with > 1.5 M_Sun/yr) implies that this massive, high-redshift cluster is experiencing a phase of active star formation, and supports recent results showing a marked increase in star formation occurring in galaxy clusters at z >1.4.
We also compute the probability of finding a cluster as rare as this in the SPT-SZ survey to be >99%, indicating that its discovery is not in tension with the concordance Lambda-CDM cosmological model.
We will discuss how the problem of high-energy hadron-hadron (dipole-dipole) scattering at low momentum transfer can be approached from the point of view of lattice QCD, by means of Monte Carlo numerical simulations.
The detection of the high-energy ($\sim290$ TeV) neutrino coincident with the flaring blazar TXS 0506+056, the first and only $3σ$ neutrino-source association to date, provides new, multimessenger tests of the weak equivalence principle (WEP) and Lorentz invariance.
Assuming that the flight time difference between the TeV neutrino and gamma-ray photons from the blazar flare is mainly caused by the gravitational potential of the Laniakea supercluster of galaxies, we show that the deviation from the WEP for neutrinos and photons is conservatively constrained to have an accuracy of $10^{-6}-10^{-7}$, which is 3--4 orders of magnitude better than previous results placed by MeV neutrinos from supernova 1987A.
In addition, we demonstrate that the association of the TeV neutrino with the blazar flare sets limits on the energy scales of quantum gravity for both linear and quadratic violations of Lorentz invariance (LIV) to $E_{\rm QG, 1}>3.2\times10^{15}-3.7\times10^{16}$ GeV and $E_{\rm QG, 2}>4.0\times10^{10}-1.4\times10^{11}$ GeV.
These improve previous limits on both linear and quadratic LIV energy scales in neutrino propagation by 5--7 orders of magnitude.
We discuss the potential of high-energy photon collisions at the LHC for improving our understanding of QCD and studying the physics beyond the Standard Model.
After reviewing briefly the legacy of past photoproduction experiments at LEP and HERA, we examine the gold-plated channels proposed for a photon collider at the ILC for their potential in a hadron collider environment.
We stress that initial-state photon interactions have indeed been observed at RHIC and at the Tevatron.
Three promising channels at the LHC are then presented in some detail: exclusive vector-meson production, measurements of possibly anomalous electroweak gauge-boson or top-quark couplings, and slepton production.
We present a curated dataset of planar displacement fields from eight fatigue crack growth experiments obtained via full-field digital image correlation (DIC).
The dataset covers multiple aerospace-grade aluminium alloys, specimen geometries, material orientations, and load configurations, providing a diverse experimental basis for data-driven fracture mechanics research.
Crack tip locations are consistently annotated using an iterative correction procedure applied to all measurements, and fracture mechanical descriptors like stress-intensity factors are provided as additional labels.
The dataset comprises 8,794 unique experimentally observed displacement fields and a total of 70,352 supervised samples generated through standardized interpolation and augmentation.
DIC data is provided as uniformly interpolated displacement grids at three standardized resolutions 28 x 28, 64 x 64, and 128 x 128 pixels, each available in three dataset sizes to support scalable use cases ranging from educational applications to high-capacity model development.
Accompanying metadata and a Python interface facilitate filtering, loading, and integration into reproducible machine learning and fracture mechanics workflows.
Hydrogen will be a crucial pillar in the clean-energy foundation, and therefore, the development of safe and cost-effective storage and transportation methods is essential to its success.
One of the key challenges in the development of such storage and transportation methods is related to the interaction of hydrogen with structural materials.
Despite extensive work, there are significant questions related to the hydrogen embrittlement of ferritic steels due to challenges associated with these steels, coupled with the difficulties with gauging the hydrogen content in all materials.
Recent advancements in experimental tools and multi-scale modeling are starting to provide insight into the embrittlement process.
This review focuses on a subset of the recent developments, with an emphasis on how new methods have improved our understanding of the structure-property-performance relationships of ferritic steels subjected to mechanical loading in a hydrogen environment.
Fatigue microdamage accumulates in bone as a result of physiological loading.
The damage is often manifested as microcracks, which are typically 50-100 mum long.
These types of cracks develop in the interstitial bone and frequently abut osteon cement lines.
In vitro experimentation has shown that an accumulation of fatigue damage reduces the material properties of bone (e.g., elastic modulus).
An accumulation of fatigue damage has been implicated in the etiology of stress fractures and fragility fractures.
However, bone has a remarkable ability to detect and repair fatigue microdamage.
This article reviews the experimental techniques for identifying and quantifying different types of microdamage in bone, the density of in vivo microcracks at different skeletal locations, the effect of microdamage on bone material properties, the role of microdamage in bone fracture, and the biological mechanisms for the detection and repair of fatigue microdamage.
Lumbar disc herniation is usually caused by the accumulation of long-term mechanical loads and sudden overload damage.
Therefore, this study aims to illustrate how fatigue failure in lumbar spine segments is influenced by both cyclic loading magnitude and pre-existing damage.
Eighty-six sheep intervertebral disc samples were divided into four groups to test the fatigue responses in healthy and damaged intervertebral discs.
Both before and after fatigue loading, the specimens were performed on loading-unloading tests to analyze the viscoelasticity changes, while the specimens were performed on MRI examination to analyze the geometric and morphological changes.
The Stress-Failure curve (SN curve) was examined, while the number of cycles to failure of damaged specimens was much smaller than that of healthy specimens at the same stress level during cyclic loading, and the relationship was approximately linear on a logarithmic scale.
In addition, the healthy specimens will not accumulate fatigue failure if the compression force remains below 50% of the ultimate compressive tolerance (UTC).
Before and after fatigue loading, the loading-unloading curves do not coincide and show obvious strain-rate-dependent viscoelastic characteristics, while the elastic modulus of the damaged specimen is significantly smaller.
For magnetic resonance imaging, morphological changes included the changes of nucleus pulposus (NP) shape and area, while fatigue has a more significant effect on ruptured and herniated disc specimens.
The dissipated energy of the intervertebral discs under cyclic loading was then calculated based on viscoelastic constitutive equations, which show that the load and preexisting damage both have significant effects on the dissipation rate.
Strain-controlled low cycle fatigue (LCF) tests were conducted on conventionally grained (CG) and ultrafine-grained (UFG) Al-Mg-Si alloys treated under various aging conditions.
In the cyclic stress response (CSR) curves, CG peak-aged (PA) alloys showed initial cyclic hardening and subsequent saturation, whereas CG over-aged (OA) alloys displayed cyclic softening behavior close to saturation.
The UFG materials exhibited continuous cyclic softening except for UFG 3; it originates from the microstructural stability of the UFG materials processed by severe plastic deformation (SPD).
Using a strain-based criterion, the LCF behavior and life of the CG and UFG materials were analyzed and evaluated; the results are discussed in terms of strengthening mechanisms and microstructural evolution.
In the CG materials, the LCF life changed markedly owing to differences in deformation inhomogeneity depending on the precipitate state.
However, the UFG materials displayed a decreasing LCF life as cyclic softening induced by dynamic recovery became more severe; additionally, a relationship between the microstructural stability of the UFG materials and the cyclic strain hardening exponent
For the past 200 years, lactate has been regarded as a metabolic waste end product that causes fatigue during exercise.
However, lactate production is closely correlated with energy metabolism.
The lactate dehydrogenase-catalyzed reaction uses protons to produce lactate, which delays ongoing metabolic acidosis.
Of note, lactate production differs depending on exercise intensity and is not limited to muscles.
Importantly, controlling physiological effect of lactate may be a solution to alleviating some chronic diseases.
Released through exercise, lactate is an important biomarker for fat oxidation in skeletal muscles.
During recovery after sustained strenuous exercise, most of the lactate accumulated during exercise is removed by direct oxidation.
However, as the muscle respiration rate decreases, lactate becomes a desirable substrate for hepatic glucose synthesis.
Furthermore, improvement in brain function by lactate, particularly, through the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, is being increasingly studied.
In addition, it is possible to improve stress-related symptoms, such as depression, by regulating the function of hippocampal mitochondria, and with an increasingly aging society, lactate is being investigated as a preventive agent for brain diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Therefore, the perception that lactate is equivalent to fatigue should no longer exist.
This review focuses on the new perception of lactate and how lactate acts extensively in the skeletal muscles, heart, brain, kidney, and liver.
Additionally, lactate is now used to confirm exercise performance and should be further studied to assess its impact on exercise training.
In this paper, the mechanical properties of 36 aluminum alloy specimens subjected to repeated tensile loading were tested.
The failure characteristics, stress-strain hysteresis curves and its corresponding skeleton curves, stress cycle characteristics, and hysteretic energy of specimens were analyzed in detail.
Furthermore, the finite element model of aluminum alloy specimens under low-cycle fatigue loading was established and compared with the experimental results.
The effects of specimen parallel length, parallel diameter, and repeated loading patterns on the mechanical properties of aluminum alloys were discussed.
The results show that when the specimen is monotonously stretched to fracture, the failure result from shearing break.
When the specimen is repeatedly stretched to failure, the fracture of the specimen is a result of the combined action of tensile stress and plastic fatigue damage.
The AA6061, AA7075, and AA6063 aluminum alloys all show cyclic softening characteristics under repeated loading.
When the initial stress amplitude of repeated loading is greater than 2.5%, the repeated tensile loading has a detrimental effect on the deformability of the aluminum alloy.
Finally, based on experiment research as well as the results of the numerical analysis, the calculation method for the tensile strength of aluminum alloys under low-cycle fatigue loading was proposed.
The biomechanical stimulus is the most important factor for fracture healing and mainly determined by the structural stiffness of bone plate.
Currently, the materials commonly used in bone plates are stainless steel and titanium, which often lead to stress shielding effects because of their higher elastic modulus compared with the bone.
This article suggests an optimal design method of lattice bone plate based on fracture healing theory.
First, the mechanical regulation model with deviatoric strain is established to simulate the tissue differentiation process during fracture healing process.
The ratio of the average elastic modulus of callus at the 120th day to the elastic modulus of mature bone is used to characterize the fracture healing rate.
Second, the optimal elastic modulus of the design domain is obtained by the optimization mathematical model with the maximum fracture healing rate.
Then, the design domain is filled with microstructures, the porosity of which is adjusted to make it possible that the equivalent elastic modulus is equal to the optimized value.
And the finite element analysis of the bone plate with microstructure is executed.
Finally, the designed lattice bone plates are manufactured through 3D printing, and the mechanical test is carried out.
The simulation results indicate that the fracture healing rate is maximum when the elastic modulus of material in design domain is 38 GPa under the constraints of fixation stability.
And both the finite element analysis and experiment results show that the designed lattice bone plate meet the strength requirements of fracture internal fixation implants.
To compare the surface microstructures and cyclic fatigue resistance of HyFlex EDM with HyFlex CM and HyFlex NT.
Twelve 25 mm-long 25#/- HyFlex EDM and twelve 25 mm-long 25#/0.06 taper HyFlex CM or HyFlex NT were selected.
The surface microstructure of the 2 instruments which were randomly selected from each group was observed by using scanning electron microscope (SEM).
The remaining 10 instruments from each group were submitted to the cyclic fatigue test by using a simulated stainless steel root canal with 60° angle of curvature and curvature radius of 3.5 mm. The time till fracture was recorded, the number of cyclic fatigue (NCF) was calculated, the length of fracture fragment was evaluated, and the topographic features were analyzed by using SEM.
The data were analyzed by using one-way analysis via SPSS 23.0 software.
The statistical significance level was set at 0.05.
SEM observation of the surface and microstructural characterization revealed peculiar melting appearance and evenly distributed micropores on the surface of HyFlex EDM while observations of the surface of both HyFlex CM and HyFlex NT demonstrated machining grooves and irregularities.
The NCF of HyFlex EDM was 838±223, which was significantly higher than not only that of HyFlex CM (582±99), but also that of HyFlex NT (81±20) (P<0.05), and the difference between the latter two groups was significant, as well (P<0.05).
The length of fractured fragments of HyFlex EDM was (7.27±0.28) mm, which was significantly longer than the HyFlex CM and HyFlex NT, with values of (6.72±0.26) mm and (6.62±0.37) mm, respectively (P<0.05).
Topographic features demonstrated typical cyclic fatigue for all the three groups while the region of crack origins was more for HyFlex EDM and HyFlex CM than that of HyFlex NT.
As far as the dimple area was concerned, that of HyFlex EDM was deeper and larger than that of HyFlex CM and HyFlex NT.
Within the limitations of this study, electro-discharge machining leads to peculiar melting appearance with micropores instead of machining grooves and irregularities on the surface of HyFlex EDM, which may be the reason why HyFlex EDM exhibits significantly better cyclicfatigue resistance than HyFlex CM and HyFlex NT.
Intense and prolonged physical activity can lead to a decrease in muscle capacity, making it difficult to maintain the desired exercise intensity and resulting in exercise fatigue.
The long-term effects of exercise fatigue can be very damaging to the body, so it is an urgent problem to be addressed.
The intervention of foodborne active substances will be an effective measure.
There is growing evidence that the molecular structure and function of curcumin have a positive effect on relieving fatigue.
In this review, we summarize curcumin's molecular structure, which enables it to bind to a wealth of molecular targets, regulate signaling pathways, and thus alleviate exercise fatigue through a variety of mechanisms, including reducing oxidative stress, inhibiting inflammation, reducing metabolite accumulation, and regulating energy metabolism.
The effects of curcumin on fatigue-related markers were analyzed from the perspective of animal models and human models and based on the bidirectional interaction between curcumin and intestinal microbiota: Intestinal microbiota can transform curcumin, and curcumin regulates gut microbiota through metabolic pathways, providing a new perspective for alleviating fatigue.
This review contributes to a more comprehensive understanding of the possible molecular mechanisms of curcumin in anti-fatigue and provides a new possibility for the development of functional foods in the future.
Slots in the disk of aircraft turbines restrain the centrifugal load of blades.
Contact surfaces between the blade root and the disk slot undergo high contact pressure and relative displacement that is the typical condition in which fretting occurs.
The load level ranges from zero to the maximum during take-off.
This cycle is repeated for each mission.
In this paper, a fretting fatigue analysis of additively manufactured blades is presented.
Blades are made of an intermetallic alloy &gamma;TiAl.
Fretting fatigue experiments were performed at a frequency of 0.5 Hz and at a temperature of 640 &deg;C to match the operating condition of real blades.
The minimum load was fixed at 0.5 KN and three maximum loads were applied, namely 16, 18 and 20 kN.
Both an analytical and a two-dimensional finite element model were used to evaluate the state of stress at the contact interfaces.
The results of the analytical model showed good agreement with the numerical model.
Experiments showed that cracks nucleate where the analytical model predicts the maximum contact pressure and the numerical model predicts the maximum equivalent stress.
A parametric analysis performed with the analytical model indicates that there exists an optimum geometry to minimize the contact pressure.
Tests showed that the component life changed dramatically with the maximum load variation.
Optical topography and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis reveals information about the damage mechanism.
This study reports the development of an artificial neural network computation model to predict the accumulation of crack density and crack length in cancellous bone under a cyclic load.
The model was then applied to conduct a parametric investigation into the effects of load level on fatigue crack accumulation in cancellous bone.
The method was built in three steps: (1) conducting finite element simulations to predict fatigue growth of different three-dimensional micro-computed tomography cancellous bone specimens considering input combinations based on a factorial experimental design; (2) performing a training stage of an artificial neural network based on the results of step 1; and (3) applying the trained artificial neural network to rapidly predict the crack density and the crack length growth for cancellous bone under a cyclic loading for a given applied apparent strain, cycle frequency, bone volume fraction, bone density and apparent elastic modulus.
A generalized Rayleigh-Plesset-type bubble dynamics model with a damage mechanism is developed for cavitation and damage of soft materials by focused ultrasound bursts.
This study is linked to recent experimental observations in tissue-mimicking polyacrylamide and agar gel phantoms subjected to bursts of a kind being considered specifically for lithotripsy.
These show bubble activation at multiple sites during the initial pulses.
More cavities appear continuously through the course of the observations, similar to what is deduced in pig kidney tissues in shock-wave lithotripsy.
Two different material models are used to represent the distinct properties of the two gel materials.
The polyacrylamide gel is represented with a neo-Hookean elastic model and damaged based upon a maximum-strain criterion; the agar gel is represented with a strain-hardening Fung model and damaged according to the strain-energy-based Griffith's fracture criterion.
Estimates based upon independently determined elasticity and viscosity of the two gel materials suggest that bubble confinement should be sufficient to prevent damage in the gels, and presumably injury in some tissues.
Damage accumulation is therefore proposed to occur via a material fatigue, which is shown to be consistent with observed delays in widespread cavitation activity.
This study evaluated the phase composition, phase transformation behaviour, and mechanical properties of five heat-treated NiTi instruments.
ProTaper NEXT (M-wire, PTN), ProTaper Gold (Gold-wire, PTG), One Curve (C-wire, OC), EdgeTaper Platinum (Fire-wire, ETP), NeoNiTi (electrical discharge machining-wire, NNA), and ProTaper Universal (conventional wire, PTU, control) with #25-tip size were tested (n = 12/group) for cyclic fatigue resistance (number of cycles to failure; NCF) and torsional resistance (angle of rotation to fracture and maximum torque at fracture [ultimate torsional strength]).
The geometry and fracture surfaces of the tested instruments were examined by scanning electron microscopy.
The phase transformation temperature and phase composition of the instruments were evaluated using differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray diffraction.
Data were statistically analysed using one-way ANOVA and Tukey's post hoc test, with the significance level set at 5%.
PTG showed the highest NCF (P < .05) at 37°C, while ETP exhibited the highest angle of rotation to fracture, ultimate torsional strength, and stiffness (P < .05).
Scanning electron microscopy demonstrated typical clusters of fatigue striations and numerous cracks after cyclic fatigue fracture, whereas there was a concentric abrasion pattern with a dimple and microvoids at the centre after torsional fracture.
In differential scanning calorimetry curves, austenite-finishing temperatures of heat-treated instruments were higher than 37°C, whereas that of PTU was lower than 37°C.
PTU showed strong peaks of austenite at 25 and 37°C, whereas ETP showed a strong peak of R-phase at 25°C, but mostly austenite phase at 37°C in X-ray diffraction.
Geometry, alloy type, and phase transformation temperatures of NiTi instruments affected their mechanical behaviour.
PTG showed the highest NCF, suitable for markedly curved canals.
ETP had the highest torsional resistance, appropriate for narrow and constricted canals.
Under cyclic fatigue load, multiple cracks would significantly deteriorate the service life of the components with respect to the case of a single crack owing to the crack interaction.
The present study aims to explore the effect of crack interaction on the fatigue growth behaviour of samples with different crack offset.
In this study, fatigue crack growth tests were performed for samples containing a single crack and non-collinear cracks of different crack offset in an aluminum-lithium alloy.
It was shown that the two facing non-collinear cracks changed their growth direction when the cracks were overlapped, resulting in load mode transfers from mode I to I + II mixed mode.
Then, the interaction behaviour was studied by establishing the finite element models to calculate the stress intensity factor K of samples with different crack offset.
The results indicated that the K decreased, largely owing to the shielding effect as the two cracks overlapped, leading to retardation of crack growth in the position of overlap, especially for the specimens with a small crack offset.
It was also shown that the interaction effect could change from positive to negative during the process of the multiple cracks' growth, thus leading to the acceleration or deceleration of crack growth rates, suggesting that the influence of interaction on cracks' growth behaviour could vary with the different stages of crack growth.
During polar navigation, adverse environmental conditions like cold temperatures, fatigue, and corrosion can affect surface and underwater manned vehicles (UMVs).
Understanding the fatigue fracture growth behavior of polar ship steel is crucial for ensuring safety.
This study investigates the mechanical properties and fatigue fracture propagation of steel used in underwater vehicle rudders under various low-temperature conditions through experimental research.
It compares and analyzes the static mechanical characteristics, fatigue crack growth rate, and fracture morphology of underwater manned vehicle rudder steels at different low temperatures.
Findings show enhancements in yield strength, tensile strength, elastic modulus, and fatigue crack propagation life of steel 925A, steel 20#, and their welded parts under low-temperature conditions.
The tensile strength of 925A steel, 20# steel, and their welded parts increases by 6.87%, 14.61%, and 12.55%, respectively, as the temperature decreases from 20 to -60 °C.
The yield strength also increases by 14.17%, 29.09%, and 15.76%, respectively.
Fatigue crack propagation rate experiments were conducted under different constant low-temperature conditions.
This study offers direction for future modeling and experimental testing.
A blunt-indentation fracture mechanics technique was used to investigate the response of a feldspathic dental porcelain to cyclic mechanical fatigue.
The indentation stress-strain curve was determined first, which showed the critical pressure necessary for crack initiation.
This research also demonstrated that pressures too small to cause immediate catastrophic failure can still cause irreversible damage.
A second series of fatigue experiments, using pressure parameters chosen from the first project investigated strength loss.
These experiments showed that the porcelain was susceptible to cyclic mechanical fatigue, and that cyclic mechanical fatigue is different from quasistatic fatigue.
Strength loss curves indicated that cyclic mechanical fatigue damage is cumulative and permitted quantification of the severity of accumulated damage.
A Nd:YAG nanosecond pulsed laser was used to carry out laser peening and cryogenic laser peening (CLP) experiments at room temperature (25°C) and cryogenic temperature (-100
This paper presents the experimental results of a study evaluating the mechanical and fatigue performance of welded Fe-Mn-Si SMA.
For the experimental study, welded and welded-and-heat-treated Fe-Mn-Si SMA specimens were fabricated, and fatigue tests were performed at various stress amplitudes.
In addition, direct tensile tests and recovery stress tests were also performed to evaluate the material properties of Fe-Mn-Si SMAs.
The elastic modulus, yield strength, and tensile strength of the welded specimens were reduced by 35.4%, 12.1%, and 8.6%, respectively, compared to the values of the non-welded specimens.
On the other hand, the elastic modulus, yield strength, and tensile strength of the welded-and-heat-treated Fe-Mn-Si SMA specimens were increased by 18.6%, 4.9%, and 1.3%, respectively, compared to the values of the welded specimens.
Both welded and welded-and-heat-treated Fe-Mn-Si SMAs failed at lower cycles than the conventional Fe-Mn-Si SMAs at the same stress amplitude.
High-cycle fatigue failure, characterized by cycles exceeding 10
Sudden failure and rupture of the tissue is a rare but serious short-term complication after the mitral valve surgical repair.
Excessive cyclic loading on the suture line of the repair can progressively damage the surrounding tissue and finally cause tissue rupture.
Moreover, mechanical over-tension, which occurs in a diseased mitral valve, gradually leads to tissue floppiness, mitral annular dilation, and leaflet rupture.
In this work, the rupture mechanics of mitral valve is studied by characterizing the fracture toughness exhaustion of healthy tissue.
Results of this study show that fracture toughness of the posterior mitral valve is lower than its anterior counterpart, indicating that posterior tissue is more prone to failure.
Moreover, the decrease in fracture toughness by increasing the number of fatigue cycles shows that excessive mechanical loading leads to progressive failure and rupture of mitral valve tissue within a damage accumulative process.
Synchrotron Radiation Computed Tomography (SRCT) allows a better detection of fatigue cracks in metals than laboratory CT due to the existence of phase contrast.
However the presence in reconstructed images of fringes at the edges of objects generated by Fresnel diffraction makes it difficult to identify and analyze the cracks quantitatively.
Simulations of phase contrast synchrotron tomography images containing cracks with different sizes and shapes are obtained by using GATE software.
Analyzing the simulation results, firstly, we confirmed that the bright parts with strong contrast in SRCT image are streak artifacts; secondly, we found that the gray scale values within the cracks in SRCT images are related to the crack size; these simulation results are used to analyse SRCT images of internal fatigue cracks in a cast Al alloy, providing a clearer visualisation of damage.
Meyer is a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, which has been used in China for more than 2000 years.
Its traditional effect of "invigorating vitality" is mainly reflected in anti-fatigue.
However, due to the difficulty of identification of polysaccharide structure, there are few reports on homogeneous ginseng polysaccharide, and the molecular mechanism of its anti-fatigue effect remains to be further explored.
In order to find the homogenous ginseng polysaccharide with the most anti-fatigue effect, this study is for the first time extracted, isolated and structurally identified polysaccharide monomer from Mountain Cultivated Ginseng (MCG).
Then the anti-fatigue activity and molecular mechanism were studied.
The structure of ginseng acidic polysaccharide APS-1 prepared by high performance gel permeation chromatography (HPGPC) was determined by acid hydrolysis/HPLC, methylation/GC-MS and NMR analysis.
Anti-fatigue effect was evaluated by exhaustive swimming model, and AMPK axis-related proteins were detected by Western blot.
APS-1 significantly prolonged fatigue tolerance time, alleviated accumulation of BLA, LDH and BUN, increased activities of SOD and CAT, alleviated oxidative damage caused by MDA, increased activity of CK, regulated glycolysis, and alleviated muscle fiber contraction.
The expressions of LKB1, p-AMPK, PGC-1α and Glut4 in muscle were significantly up-regulated.
The anti-fatigue effect of APS-1 was significantly, and the molecular mechanism may be related to the activation of AMPK axis signaling pathway to improve glucose uptake and mitochondrial function.
Automotive components manufacturers use the 5160 steel in leaf and coil springs.
The industrial heat treatment process consists in austenitizing followed by the oil quenching and tempering process.
Typically, compressive residual stresses are induced by shot peening on the surface of automotive springs to bestow compressive residual stresses that improve the fatigue resistance and increase the service life of the parts after heat treatment.
In this work, a high-speed quenching was used to achieve compressive residual stresses on the surface of AISI/SAE 5160 steel samples by producing high thermal gradients and interrupting the cooling in order to generate a case-core microstructure.
A special laboratory equipment was designed and built, which uses water as the quenching media in a high-speed water chamber.
The severity of the cooling was characterized with embedded thermocouples to obtain the cooling curves at different depths from the surface.
Samples were cooled for various times to produce different hardened case depths.
The microstructure of specimens was observed with a scanning electron microscope (SEM).
X-ray diffraction (XRD) was used to estimate the magnitude of residual stresses on the surface of the specimens.
Compressive residual stresses at the surface and sub-surface of about -700 MPa were obtained.
We test a hypothesis to explain why Ti-6242 is susceptible to cold dwell fatigue (CDF), whereas Ti-6246 is not.
The hypothesis is that, in Ti-6246, substitutional Mo-atoms in α-Ti grains trap vacancies, thereby limiting creep relaxation.
In Ti-6242, this creep relaxation enhances the loading of grains unfavourably oriented for slip and they subsequently fracture.
Using density functional theory to calculate formation and binding energies between Mo-atoms and vacancies, we find no support for the hypothesis.
In the light of this result, and experimental observations of the microstructures in these alloys, we agree with the recent suggestion (Qiu
This paper presents the results of the static tensile and fatigue life tests under rotating bending of round 1.4301 (AISI 304) steel samples.
The fatigue tests were carried out on smooth and notched samples with three different rounding angles with a shape factor of 1.4, 2 and 2.6.
A fatigue life was determined for samples with different shape factors subject to identical loads.
The results showed that the scatter of fatigue test results decreases with an increase in shape factor.
To evaluate the cracking properties (cracking mode and mechanism), microstructure and fractographic tests of the fractured samples were carried out.
Previous randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have shown beneficial effects of iron supplementation other than anemia improvement including treatment of restless leg syndrome and general fatigue, even in non-anemic subjects with iron deficiency.
Recently, some RCTs in congestive heart failure (CHF) demonstrated that intravenous administration of ferric carboxymaltose improves patient symptoms and reduces incidence of hospitalization for worsening heart failure.
Consequently, the European Society of Cardiology recommends that iron deficient patients with CHF are administered ferric carboxymaltose (evidence level A).
Moreover, the PIVOTAL study for hemodialysis patients proved that proactive administration of iron sucrose decreases the dose of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents and frequency of transfusion compared with its sole administration in reaction to iron deficiency.
Notably, this proactive treatment is superior to a low-dose regimen in preventing the primary composite endpoints of nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization for CHF, and death.
These clinical findings are supported by basic research on cardiomyocyte-specific transferrin receptor knock-out mice showing heart failure with impaired mitochondrial respiratory function.
In this model, cardiac iron deficiency impairs the mitochondrial electron transport chain, thus leading to low adenosine triphosphate production, and it subsequently prevents mitophagy resulting in damaged mitochondrial accumulation in the heart.
This study systematically investigated the cavitation erosion resistance and failure mechanisms of 06Cr13Ni5Mo(S135) stainless steel and four coatings (HVOF-WC10Co4Cr, HVOF-Cr
To investigate the relationship between inclusions and bending fatigue behaviors in 20Cr2Ni4 steel under different stress concentrations.
This paper designs a new experimental method to prefabricate different size stress concentrations near the inclusions, and then conducts a new type of bending fatigue test to study the inclusions and their surrounding stress distributions in 20Cr2Ni4 steel.
A microhardness tester was combined with laser etching equipment to realize the prefabrication of different stress concentrations at arbitrary positions around any inclusion on the gear steel surface.
This method provides an experimental basis for the quantitative analysis of the relationship between stress distribution and fatigue life around the inclusions of heavy-duty gear steels.
We also predict the bending fatigue lives of heavy-duty gear steels with different types of inclusions, stress states, and spatial distributions.
Then, based on the prefabricated notch parameters and the state of inclusions in the steel, a mathematical model of quantitative analysis is proposed, which can accurately predict the fatigue limit of heavy-duty gear steel.
The research results can be applied to the actual use of heavy-duty gears and to the accurate life estimation based on the state of gear stress, thereby providing a quantitative reference model for subsequent gear steel production and gear part processing.
A certain number of hole-like defects will occur in aluminum alloys under cyclic loading.
The internal holes will reduce the strength of the material and cause stress concentration, which will aggravate the development of fatigue damage.
A classification method of defect features based on X-ray CT damage data is proposed.
The random hole distribution model is established through the linear congruence method and the region division method.
The hole parameter is introduced as the intermediate variable of the 3D reconstruction model of internal defects.
In the mesoscopic stage, the function relationship between the distribution of random holes and the fatigue life is established based on the coupling relationship between the number and proportion of pores and the fatigue life.
In the macroscopic stage, the relationship between the random holes and the macroscopic crack growth life is established by taking the crack length as the damage variable.
The crack propagation rate decreased with the increase in the number of holes.
The prediction model of the whole life stage is established using the life function from microcrack initiation to macroscopic crack propagation.
Finally, the validity of the whole stage fatigue life prediction model is demonstrated through the comparison and verification of experiments, which provides a certain engineering value for the life estimation of 6061-T6 aluminum alloy materials.
Nickel-based superalloys are famous in the demanding applications.
Inconel 718 is one of the most commonly used nickel-based superalloys due to its extraordinary inherent properties.
Inconel 718 is a suitable material for high temperature applications due to the properties such as anti-oxidization, high hot hardness, high creep, and fatigue strength.
Drilling operation is one of the most widely used manufacturing operations in almost all industrial sectors.
However, drilling operation is very complex in nature due to the presence of intricate geometry of the drill bit.
In conventional drilling, cutting is performed by the combined action of the chisel edge and the two or more cutting lips.
In depth analysis of the cutting process shows that chisel edge starts with an indentation at the center of the twist drill.
Then away from the center, chisel edge performs orthogonal cutting with negative rake angle.
Whereas, cutting action at the cutting lip is oblique in nature, and force analysis involves the use of element formulation due to involvement of radius.
It is rarely found in the literature where drilling operation at different inclination angles is conducted and analyzed.
The presented study numerically investigates the cutting performance of drilling operation, when operated at different inclination angles.
The study revealed cutting force variation at different inclination angles due to the different tool workpiece engagement for each inclination.
The magnitude of thrust force increased when inclination angle is changed from 30° to 60°.
It can be linked with the higher chip load initially in this case as compared to the 30° inclination angle.
The cutting temperature was affected by spindle speed (53.7%), followed by feed rate (33.31%) and inclination angle (3.44%).
Bonded patches are widely used in several industry sectors for repairing damaged plates, cracks in metallic structures, and reinforcement of damaged structures.
Composite patches have optimal properties such as high strength-to-weight ratio, easiness in being applied, and high flexibility.
Due to recent rapid growth in the aerospace industry, analyses of adhesively bonded patches applicable to repairing cracked structures have become of great significance.
In the present study, the fatigue behavior of the aluminum alloy, repaired by a double-sided glass/epoxy composite patch, is studied numerically.
More specifically, the effect of applying a double-sided composite patch on the fatigue life improvement of a damaged aluminum 6061-T6 is analyzed. 3D finite element numerical modeling is performed to analyze the fatigue performance of both repaired and unrepaired aluminum plates using the Abaqus package.
To determine the fatigue life of the aluminum 6061-T6 plate, first, the hysteresis loop is determined, and afterward, the plastic strain amplitude is calculated.
Finally, by using the Coffin-Manson equation, fatigue life is predicted and validated against the available experimental data from the literature.
Results reveal that composite patches increase the fatigue life of cracked structures significantly, ranging from 55% to 100% for different applied stresses.
This study investigated the effect of pre-deformation on the corrosion fatigue crack propagation (CFCG) of Al-Mg-Zn alloy in a corrosive environment.
Tensile tests at different pre-deformation levels and molecular dynamics simulations analyzed changes in dislocation density.
Corrosion fatigue experiments were conducted in a 3.5% NaCl solution at room temperature, and crack propagation morphology was characterized using electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
The results showed that tensile strength increased by 2.63% and 10.00% for 5% and 10% pre-deformation, respectively.
The crack propagation threshold values were L
Creep-fatigue interaction occurs in many structural components of high-temperature systems operating under cyclic and steady-state service conditions, such as in nuclear power plants, aerospace, naval, and other industrial applications.
Thus, understanding micromechanisms governing high-temperature creep-fatigue behavior is essential for safety and design considerations.
In this work, stress-controlled creep-fatigue tests of advanced austenitic stainless steel (Alloy 709) were performed at a 400 MPa stress range and 750 °C with tensile hold times of 0, 60, 600, 1800, and 3600 s, followed by microstructural examinations.
The creep-fatigue lifetime of the Alloy 709 was found to decrease with increasing hold time until reaching a saturation level where the number of cycles to failure did not exhibit a significant decrease.
Softening behavior was observed at the beginning of the test, possibly due to the recovery of entangled dislocations and de-twining.
In addition, hysteresis loops showed ratcheting behavior, although the mean stress was zero during creep-fatigue cycling, which was attributed to activity of partial dislocations.
Microstructural examination of the fracture surfaces showed that fatigue failure dominated at small hold times where the cracks initiated at the surface of the sample.
Larger creep cracks were found for longer hold times with a lower probability of dimpled cavities, indicating the dominance of creep deformation.
The results were compared with other commonly used stainless steels, and plausible reasons for the observed responses were described.
As a progressive surface-hardening technology, laser shock processing (LSP) can enhance the mechanical properties and extend fatigue life for metallic components through laser-generated high-pressure plasma shock waves.
In this work, LSP was used to treat titanium alloy Ti-13Nb-13Zr experimental coupons, and the microstructural response and surface mechanical properties of the Ti-13Nb-13Zr experimental coupons were investigated.
After the LSP treatment, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) peaks were shifted without any new phase formation.
The surface roughness of the experimental coupons increased, which can be explained by the LSP-induced severe plastic deformation.
The LSP treatment effectively enhanced the surface compressive residual stress of Ti-13Nb-13Zr.
Meanwhile, the microhardness of the Ti-13Nb-13Zr was also obviously increased after the LSP treatment.
The experimental results also showed that the number of shocks times is an important factor in the improvement of surface mechanical properties.
LSP treatment with multiple shocks can lead to more severe plastic deformation.
The surface roughness, surface compressive residual stress and microhardness of the Ti-13Nb-13Zr experimental coupons shocked three times are higher than those after one shock.
What is more, grain refinement accounts for the mechanical properties' enhancements after the LSP treatment.
The local prediction of fatigue damage within polycrystals in a high-cycle fatigue setting is a long-lasting and challenging task.
It requires identifying grains tending to accumulate plastic deformation under cyclic loading.
We address this task by transcribing ferritic steel microtexture and damage maps from experiments into a microstructure graph.
Here, grains constitute graph nodes connected by edges whenever grains share a common boundary.
Fatigue loading causes some grains to develop slip markings, which can evolve into microcracks and lead to failure.
This data set enables applying graph neural network variants on the task of binary grain-wise damage classification.
The objective is to identify suitable data representations and models with an appropriate inductive bias to learn the underlying damage formation causes.
Here, graph convolutional networks yielded the best performance with a balanced accuracy of 0.72 and a F
Fatigue damage accumulation has been demonstrated in living bone and postulated as a stimulus to the bone modeling and remodeling response.
Mechanical property degradation is one manifestation of fatigue damage accumulation.
This study examines changes in secant modulus and cyclic energy dissipation behavior during axial load-controlled fatigue loading of cortical bone specimens.
The findings suggest that secant modulus degradation and cyclic energy dissipation are greatly increased at loading levels above critical damage strain thresholds of 2500 and 4000 mu epsilon in tensile and compressive fatigue, respectively.
Tensile and compressive fatigue loading also caused different forms of modulus degradation at loading levels above these thresholds.
Bone behaves as a linear viscoelastic material below these thresholds, even after prior property degradation at higher loading levels.
Cyclic energy dissipation was proportional to the 2.1 power of the applied effective strain range for all loadings below 2500 mu epsilon.
Above 2500 mu epsilon, tensile fatigue loading caused cyclic energy dissipation proportional to the 5.8 power of the applied effective strain range.
Compressive fatigue loading dissipated cyclic energy proportional to the 4.9 power of applied effective strain range over 4000 mu epsilon.
Lifetime energy dissipation over all fatigue tests to fracture at a single loading level was well fitted by the same power law in the number of cycles to failure raised to the 0.6 power.
Loading levels of 2500 mu epsilon in tension and 4000 mu epsilon in compression are within the ranges observed in living animals, and thus these phenomena may play a role in initiating the remodeling response in live bone tissue.
Although striations are often used in evaluating fatigue crack growth in engineering materials, they have not been used in studying the mechanics of fracture in hard tissues.
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the striations resulting from fatigue crack growth in the dentin of human teeth.
Compact tension (CT) specimens obtained from the coronal dentin of molars from young (17 < or = age < or = 37 years) and senior (age > or = 50 years) patients were subjected to cyclic Mode I loads.
Striations evident on the fracture surfaces were examined using a scanning electron microscope (SEM) and contact profilometer.
Fatigue crack growth striations that developed in vivo were also examined on fracture surfaces of restored molars.
A power spectrum analysis of surface profiles from the CT specimens showed that the striation spacing ranged from 50 to 170 microm.
The average spacing in the dentin of seniors (130 +/- 23 microm) was significantly larger (p < 0.001) than that in young dentin (88 +/- 13 microm).
Fatigue striations in the restored teeth exhibited features that were consistent with those that developed in vitro and a spacing ranging from 59 to 95 microm.
Unlike metals, the striations in dentin developed after a period of cyclic loading that ranged from 1 x 10(3) to 1 x 10(5) cycles.
A quantitative evaluation of the striation spacing using the Bates-Clark equation suggested that cyclic crack growth within the restored teeth occurred at a stress intensity range near 0.7 MPa x m(0.5), and a stress range of approximately 12 MPa.
Ultrasonic fatigue testing is an increasingly used method to study the high cycle fatigue (HCF) and very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) properties of materials.
Specimens are cycled at an ultrasonic frequency, which leads to a drastic reduction of testing times.
This work focused on summarising the current understanding, based on literature data and original work, whether and how fatigue properties measured with ultrasonic and conventional equipment are comparable.
Aluminium alloys are not strain-rate sensitive.
A weaker influence of air humidity at ultrasonic frequencies may lead to prolonged lifetimes in some alloys, and tests in high humidity or distilled water can better approximate environmental conditions at low frequencies.
High-strength steels are insensitive to the cycling frequency.
Strain rate sensitivity of ferrite causes prolonged lifetimes in those steels that show crack initiation in the ferritic phase.
Austenitic stainless steels are less prone to frequency effects.
Fatigue properties of titanium alloys and nickel alloys are insensitive to testing frequency.
Limited data for magnesium alloys and graphite suggest no frequency influence.
Ultrasonic fatigue tests of a glass fibre-reinforced polymer delivered comparable lifetimes to servo-hydraulic tests, suggesting that high-frequency testing is, in principle, applicable to fibre-reinforced polymer composites.
The use of equipment with closed-loop control of vibration amplitude and resonance frequency is strongly advised since this guarantees high accuracy and reproducibility of ultrasonic tests.
Pulsed loading and appropriate cooling serve to avoid specimen heating.
Accurate estimation of multiaxial fatigue life plays a critical role in maintaining the structural integrity and operational reliability of mechanical components subjected to complex loading conditions.
Under non-proportional loading, fatigue life tends to decrease significantly due to the emergence of additional damage mechanisms, such as dislocation accumulation, cyclic hardening, and accelerated propagation of micro-cracks.
This study conducts a systematic investigation into the primary factors that influence fatigue behavior under non-proportional loading conditions.
A novel damage factor is proposed, which quantifies the additional strengthening effects caused by complex stress and strain interactions.
Based on this factor, a new prediction model is developed through the combination of critical plane theory and an energy-based framework.
This model captures the influence of non-proportional strengthening on fatigue strength with improved accuracy.
Experimental validation is carried out using En8, TC4, and Al7050-T7451 materials under tension and torsion loading conditions.
Comparative analysis with three conventional models shows that the proposed method improves the accuracy of predictions and offers a dependable approach for practical engineering applications.
A low-carbon medium manganese steel (0.12C-3.13Mn) containing Cr, Ni, Mo, V, and Cu elements was designed to replace the AISI 4330 steel applied in the oil and gas industry.
The mechanical properties, microstructures, and fatigue crack growth rate were comparatively analyzed using uniaxial tension tests, microstructure characterization, and compact tension with fatigue crack growth characterization.
The results showed that the ductility and -40 °C impact energy of 0.12C-3.13Mn steel were better than AISI 4330 steel (from 115 J to 179 J), while the yield strength of 957 MPa of the former was lower than the latter of 1060 MPa after being subjected to the same tempering process.
The microstructure of 0.12C-3.13Mn steel was composed of a mixture of tempered martensite, reversed austenite, and nanosized precipitation particles, while the microstructure of S4330 steel contained ferrite and large-size Fe
Experimental models can be used for pre-clinical testing of cemented and other type of hip replacements.
Total hip replacement (THR) failure scenarios include, among others, cement damage accumulation and the assessment of accurate stress and strain magnitudes at the cement mantle interfaces (stem-cement and cement-bone) can be used to predict mechanical failure.
The aseptic loosening scenario in cemented hip replacements is currently not fully understood, and methods of evaluating medical devices must be developed to improve clinical performance.
Different results and conclusions concerning the cement micro-cracking mechanism have been reported.
The aim of this study was to verify the in vitro behavior of two cemented femoral stems with respect to fatigue crack formation.
Fatigue crack damage was assessed at the medial, lateral, anterior and posterior sides of the Lubinus SPII and Charnley stems.
All stems were loaded and tested in stair climbing fatigue loading during one million cycles at 2 Hz.
After the experiments each implanted synthetic femur was sectioned and analyzed.
We observed more damage (cracks per area) for the Lubinus SPII stem, mainly on the proximal part of the cement mantle.
The micro-cracking formation initiated in the stem-cement interface and grew towards the direction of cortical bone of the femur.
Overall, the cement-bone interface seems to be crucial for the success of the hip replacement.
The Charnley stem provoked more damage on the cement-bone interface.
A failure index (maximum length of crack/maximum thickness of cement) considered was higher for the cement-stem interface of the Lubinus SPII stem.
For a cement mantle thickness higher than 5 mm, cracking initiated at the cement-bone interface and depended on the opening canal process (reaming procedure and instrumentation).
The analysis also showed that fatigue-induced damage on the cement mantle, increasing proximally, and depended on the axial position of the stem.
The cement thickness is an important factor for the success of THR and this study evidenced that cement thickness higher than 2 mm apparently does not affect the mechanical behavior of the cement mantel and induce more crack formation on the cement-bone interface.
Although the role of fatigue failure in aseptic loosening of cemented total hip replacements has been extensively studied in femoral components, studies of fatigue failure in cement mantle of acetabular replacements have yet to be reported, despite that the long-term failure rate in the latter is about three times that of femoral components.
Part of the reason may be that a complex pelvic bone structure does not land itself readily for a 2D representation as that of a femur.In this work, a simple multilayer model has been developed to reproduce the stress distributions in the cement mantle of an acetabular replacement from a plane strain finite element pelvic bone model.
The experimental multilayer model was subjected to cyclic loading up to peak hip contact force during normal walking.
Radial fatigue cracks were observed in the vicinity of the maximum tangential and compressive stresses, as predicted by the FE models.
Typical fatigue striations were also observed on the fracture surfaces post cyclic testing.
The results were examined in the context of retrieval studies, 3D FE analysis and in vitro experimental results using full-sized hemi-pelvic bone models.
The 5-year findings of a randomized clinical trial testing the null hypothesis that there are no differences between the clinical-wear performances of nano-, microfilled-, and conventional hybrids placed in class I and class II cavities are reported.
Effects of subject-, operator-, and restoration-related variables on wear were assessed.
Sixteen Tetric-C, 17 Tetric-EC, and 16 Gradia-DP restorations were placed in human molars and recalled at baseline, 6 months and at yearly intervals.
The gypsum replicas at each recall were scanned (3D laser scanning), epoxy resin replicas were observed under scanning electron microscope and linear mixed models were used to study the influence of different variables on wear.
The generalized vertical wear rate/month were (1.4 μm Tetric-C and Tetric-EC; 1.8 μm Gradia-DP) and volume wear rate/month were (0.017 mm(3) Tetric-EC; 0.018 mm(3) Gradia-DP, and 0.011 mm(3) Tetric-EC).
Operator-cavity type interaction and surface area of restorations did significantly influence the volume wear rates (p < 0.05).
The three wear patterns: fatigue cracks at heavy occlusal contact area/OCA, pitting at light OCA, and scratches/striations along the food escape pathways were evident.
The three hybrids differed significantly in volume wear due to material and operator variables.
Clinically, operators and cavity type can affect restorations' wear magnitude but do not contribute to increased functional risk of fracture or harmful effect on pulp and periodontal biocompatibility.
Clinical studies have revealed that aseptic loosening is the dominant cause of failure in total hip arthroplasty, particularly for the acetabular component.
For a cemented polyethylene cup, failure is generally accompanied by the formation of fibrous tissue at the cement-bone interface.
A variety of reasons for the formation of this tissue have been suggested, including osteolysis and mechanical overload at the cement-bone interface.
In this study, a computational cement damage accumulation method was used to investigate the effect of polyethylene cup penetration, cement mantle thickness, and cement porosity on the number of cycles required to achieve mechanical fatigue failure of the cement mantle.
Cup penetration was found to increase cement mantle stresses, resulting in a reduction in cement mantle fatigue life of 9% to 11% for a high cup penetration rate.
The effect of using a thin (2 mm) over a thick (4 mm) cement mantle also reduced cement mantle fatigue life between 9% and 11%, and greatly raised cancellous bone stresses.
Cement porosity was found to have very little effect on cement mantle fatigue life.
Failure modes and cement stresses involved suggest that only extreme combinations of a thin cement mantle and high cup penetration may lead to mechanical failure of the cement mantle, thereby allowing wear debris access to the cement-bone interface.
A thin cement mantle may also lead to the mechanical overload of the cement-bone interface.
In this manner, the authors suggest that the mechanical factors may contribute to the failure mode of cemented polyethylene cups.
The cause of mechanical failure of the fixture component of an osseointegrated dental implant was investigated.
The surfaces of five clinical specimens that had fractured were compared to those of new specimens fractured in the laboratory under monotonic and cyclic loads.
Scanning electron microscopy revealed striations on the fractured surfaces of the clinical specimens, similar to striations on the laboratory-fatigued specimens and in contrast to the dimpled surfaces on the overloaded specimens.
The investigation demonstrated that fractures of the fixture component of this dental implant occurred by fatigue under physiologic loads, with marginal alveolar bone loss around the fixture.
In this paper, the influence of a surface ultrasonic rolling process on the surface integrity of TC4 titanium alloy and its influence on the fatigue properties were studied.
By comparing and analyzing the surface roughness, microhardness, residual stress, microstructure, and fatigue fracture, the surface strengthening and modification mechanism of TC4 titanium alloy is discussed.
The results show that the surface roughness of titanium alloy is observably decreased after the suitable surface ultrasonic rolling process, and the maximum Ra value can be reduced to 0.052 μm. The axial residual stress on the specimen surface can be increased to -685 MPa. The hardening rate of the surface hardness of the sample was 35%.
The residual compressive stress and hardness of the sample surface increased with the increase of static pressure.
However, the increase of feed rate and rational speed was less.
After surface ultrasonic rolling, the sample surface exhibited obvious grain refinement, the number of high-angle boundaries increased to include the formation of nano-equiaxed grains.
The fatigue strength increased by 52% from 280 MPa to 425 MPa. Under 450 MPa, the fatigue life of samples with SUR 2 was the highest, at about 7.7 times that of the original samples.
The surface integrity of titanium alloy samples after surface ultrasonic rolling treatment is greatly improved, which is the reason for the significant increase in fatigue life of the samples.
Age-strengthened aluminum alloys, as important lightweight structural materials, have significantly lower fatigue properties compared to non-age-strengthened aluminum alloys.
In this study, the polycrystalline models containing precipitation-free zones (PFZ) were constructed by secondary development of the traditional polycrystalline model by modifying the mesh file.
Polycrystalline finite element simulations of peak age-treated Al-7.02Mg-1.98Zn alloys were carried out with this model.
The results demonstrate that the PFZ's presence markedly reduces the alloy's yield strength and a substantial stress concentration occurs adjacent to the PFZ, generating significant compressive stresses at the PFZ.
Under cyclic loading, the maximum strain energy dissipation in the model containing the PFZ far exceeds that observed in the conventional polycrystalline model, and the strain energy dissipation observed in the PFZ is significantly higher than that at other locations.
This indicates that the PFZ is the main region for fatigue crack initiation.
In addition, the introduction of a rotation factor to simulate the inhomogeneous rotation within the grain reveals that the additional stress concentration in the PFZ introduced by the aluminum alloy-forming process further increases the fatigue crack initiation driving force.
Recent advancements in aerospace industry demand intricate aero-engine parts, leading to the increased use of titanium alloys, particularly Ti-17, due to its high strength, thermal stability, and corrosion resistance.
However, its low thermal conductivity and tool wear tendency pose significant machining challenges, impacting surface integrity, fatigue life, and overall component performance.
This study investigates the Wire Electrical Discharge Cutting (WEDC) process, revealing that the mechanism behind improved surface integrity lies in the controlled thermal input, which minimizes phase transformations and reduces residual stresses.
Experimental results reveal that rough-cutting Ti-17 yields higher surface roughness of ∼2.68 μm than that of finish cutting of ∼1.01 μm, with increased microhardness up to 80 μm depth.
Further, rough cutting leads to a thicker recast layer of ∼10-15 μm, and higher residual stresses of ∼540 MPa, while finish cutting achieves a thinner recast layer of ∼2-5 μm and reduced stresses of ∼304 MPa. The innovation of this study is the investigation of WEDC behavior in Ti-17 alloy, addressing a gap in understanding its surface integrity features to improve the performance, durability, and service life of aero-engine components, advancing next-generation aerospace manufacturing.
An experimental methodology was developed for estimating a very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) life of the aluminum alloy AMG-6 subjected to preliminary deformation.
The analysis of fatigue damage staging is based on the measurement of elastic modulus decrement according to "in situ" data of nonlinear dynamics of free-end specimen vibrations at the VHCF test.
The correlation of fatigue damage staging and fracture surface morphology was studied to establish the scaling properties and kinetic equations for damage localization, "fish-eye" nucleation, and transition to the Paris crack kinetics.
These equations, based on empirical parameters related to the structure of the material, allows us to estimate the number of cycles for the nucleation and advance of fatigue crack.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the interaction between mechanical and chemical fatigue in resin composites and dental ceramics, and the effects thereof on fatigue resistance of tooth-colored restoratives.
To this end, the fatigue fracture resistance of restoratives under dry and aqueous conditions were analyzed by a dynamic fatigue crack propagation test using beam-shaped specimens with a precrack.
Fatigue crack propagation characteristics were expressed by the correlation between fatigue crack growth rate (da/dN) and stress intensity factor range (deltaK).
In addition, fatigue crack growth threshold (deltaKth) was calculated.
Following the fatigue test, a fractographic examination was performed using scanning electron microscopy.
Fatigue crack initiation was retarded in resin composites under aqueous condition, but dental ceramics were susceptible to slow crack growth after crack initiation.
SEM images of the fatigue facture surfaces reflected inorganic and organic filler particles of different sizes in composites and the bonding at crystal-glass interface in ceramics.
It was concluded that water exerted different effects on the fatigue resistance of composites and ceramics.
The significant advancement in additive technologies has made it possible to manufacture metal components in diverse shapes and sizes.
Despite this progress, numerous processes and phenomena, along with the implications of producing components layer by layer on their performance under stress, remain inadequately explored.
These factors not only affect microstructure but subsequently also the mechanical properties.
The positioning of objects within the 3D printer's workspace can thus significantly play a crucial role in their operational functionality, reliability, and safety of the equipment in an application.
This article studies anisotropic properties and the influence of the printing orientation of aluminum alloy (AlSi10Mg) cylindrical tensile samples fabricated through an additive approach on their mechanical properties under tensile loading.
Tensile testing of specimens covering seven different spatial orientations in the workspace of a 3D printing machine was performed according to ISO 6892-1 international standard.
Minimum and maximum tensile properties (yield and ultimate tensile strength) have been observed in Y-sample and X-sample series, respectively.
In contrast, elastic modulus of the 3D printed specimens was minimal for X-sample series, and maximal for Y-sample series.
Fracture surfaces of the samples in seven basic spatial orientations were evaluated in synergy with the mechanical testing results determined by optical, electron microscopy, and electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) textural analysis to find correlation between the strength of the samples and the orientation of grains, their size and morphology.
Furthermore, thermodynamic and Scheil-Gulliver simulation has been employed in order to explain the formation of intermetallic phases during additive manufacturing and further justifying observations in microstructure and mechanical properties.
The disparity in texture intensity between these regions for samples Y(3) is likely responsible for localized mechanical incompatibilities and strain heterogeneity, resulting in preferential crack paths and reduced mechanical strength compared to the sample Z(3), which presented a more randomized orientation distribution with less distinguishable texture zones, enabling better strain accommodation and more uniform plastic deformation, which correlates with its higher tensile and yield strength.
Fusion welding causes joint deterioration when joining aluminum alloys, which limits the use of aluminum alloy components in high-end equipment.
This paper focuses on an overview of how to achieve high-strength aluminum alloy welded joints using welding/plastic deformation composite forming technology.
The current technology is summarized into two categories: plastic deformation welding and plastic deformation strengthening.
Plastic deformation welding includes friction stir welding, friction welding, diffusion welding, superplastic solid-state welding, explosive welding, and electromagnetic pulse welding.
Plastic deformation strengthening refers to the application of plastic deformation to the weld seam or heat-affected zone, or even the whole joint, after welding or during welding, including physical surface modification and large-scale plastic deformation technology.
Important processing parameters of plastic deformation welding and their effects on weld quality are discussed, and the microstructure is described.
The effect of plastic deformation strengthening technology on the microstructure and performance evolution, including the hardness, tensile strength, fatigue property, residual stress, and hot cracking of aluminum alloy welded joints, and its evolution mechanism are systematically analyzed.
Finally, this paper discusses the future development of plastic deformation strengthening technology and anticipates growing interest in this research area.
Slow crack growth can be described in a v (crack velocity) versus KI (stress intensity factor) diagram.
Slow crack growth in ceramics is attributed to corrosion assisted stress at the crack tip or at any pre-existing defect in the ceramic.
The combined effect of high stresses at the crack tip and the presence of water or body fluid molecules (reducing surface energy at the crack tip) induces crack propagation, which eventually may result in fatigue.
The presence of a threshold in the stress intensity factor, below which no crack propagation occurs, has been the subject of important research in the last years.
The higher this threshold, the higher the reliability of the ceramic, and consequently the longer its lifetime.
We utilize the Irwin K-field displacement relation to deduce crack tip stress intensity factors from the near crack tip profile.
Cracks are initiated by indentation impressions.
The threshold stress intensity factor is determined as the time limit of the tip stress intensity when the residual stresses have (nearly) disappeared.
We determined the threshold stress intensity factors for most of the all ceramic materials presently important for dental restorations in Europe.
Of special significance is the finding that alumina ceramic has a threshold limit nearly identical with that of zirconia.
The intention of the present paper is to stress the point that the threshold stress intensity factor represents a more intrinsic property for a given ceramic material than the widely used toughness (bend strength or fracture toughness), which refers only to fast crack growth.
Considering two ceramics with identical threshold limits, although with different critical stress intensity limits, means that both ceramics have identical starting points for slow crack growth.
Fast catastrophic crack growth leading to spontaneous fatigue, however, is different.
This growth starts later in those ceramic materials that have larger critical stress intensity factors.
Pitting and delamination remain causative factors of polyethylene failure in total knee replacement.
Gamma irradiation induces cross linking in ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene, which has been shown to improve wear resistance.
Irradiation may reduce fracture toughness and fatigue strength, however, and the effects of irradiation are dependent upon the resin, processing technique, and radiation dose.
The effects of varying levels of gamma irradiation (0, 33, 66, and 100 kGy) on the fracture toughness and fatigue-crack resistance of UHMWPE, isostatically molded from 1900H and GUR 1050 resins, were examined.
Paris law regressions were performed to quantify fatigue-crack propagation rates as functions of change in stress intensity, and J-integral methods were used to quantify the elastic-plastic fracture toughness.
The results indicated that gamma irradiation reduced the resistance of both materials to fatigue-crack growth, and that the reductions were radiation dosage and resin dependent.
Irradiation at any level was detrimental to the fracture toughness of the 1900H specimens.
Irradiation at 33 kGy increased fracture toughness for the GUR 1050 specimens, and substantial reductions were observed only at the highest irradiation level.
Scanning electron microscopy of the fracture surface revealed diamond-like fracture patterns of the nonirradiated specimens indicative of ductile, multilevel fracture.
Pronounced striations were apparent on these fracture surfaces, oriented perpendicular to the direction of crack growth.
The striations appeared as folds in surface layers of the GUR 1050 specimens.
At the highest irradiation levels, the striations were nearly eliminated on the fracture surfaces of the 1900H specimens, and were markedly less severe for the GUR 1050.
These results demonstrated that at higher irradiation levels the materials became more brittle in fatigue, with less ductile folding and tearing of the fracture surfaces.
The objective of this study was to 1) compare the stress corrosion coefficient (n) of a Y-TZP obtained by two fatigue tests: cyclic and dynamic and 2) evaluate the effect of frequency in the characteristic lifetime and the existence of interaction between the cyclic fatigue and slow crack growth.
A total of 145 Y-TZP specimens were produced in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
These specimens, measuring 4.0 × 3.0 × 25.0 mm, were used for dynamic (n = 70) and cyclic fatigue tests (n = 75).
The specimens were obtained from CAD/CAM blocks, sectioned, and sintered in a furnace at 1530 °C with a heating rate of 25 °C/min.
They were tested in their "as-sintered" form without any additional surface treatment.
The fatigue tests were conducted using a four-point bending to obtain the slow crack growth parameters (n).
The cyclic fatigue test was also conducted in two frequencies (2 and 10 Hz), using stress levels between 350 and 600 MPa. Data from these tests were analyzed using ASTM C 1368-00 formulas and Weibull statistics.
Scanning electron microscope (SEM) was used for fracture surface analysis to identify the origin of the fracture.
Critical defect size was measured and used, along with flexural strength values, to estimate fracture toughness.
Dynamic fatigue test data were used to obtain subcritical crack growth (SCG) parameters and perform Weibull statistical analysis.
The cyclic fatigue data were used in the General Log-linear Model equation using the ALTA PRO software.
Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey post-hoc tests and Student's t-test at a significance level of p ≤ 0.05.
In the dynamic fatigue test, the values obtained for σ the n values obtained by cyclic and dynamic fatigue tests showed no statistically significant difference and the effect of frequency in the characteristic lifetime and the existence of interaction between the cyclic fatigue and subcritical growth were not observed in the tested specimens.
In this paper, a novel method for high temperature fatigue strength assessment of nickel superalloy turbine blades after operation at different times (303 and 473 h) was presented.
The studies included destructive testing (fatigue testing at temperature 950 °C under cyclic bending load), non-destructive testing (Fluorescent Penetrant Inspection and Eddy Current method), and finite element modelling.
High temperature fatigue tests were performed within load range from 5200 to 6600 N using a special self-designed blade grip attached to the conventional testing machine.
The experimental results were compared with the finite element model generated from the ANSYS software.
It was found that failure of turbine blades occurred in the area with the highest stress concertation, which was accurately predicted by the finite element (FE) model.
A fatigue test and numerical simulation on corroded high-strength steel wires with multiple corrosion pits were conducted.
A new approach combining the eXtended Finite Element Method (XFEM) and the Equivalent Initial Flaw Size (EIFS) was proposed to investigate three-dimensional fatigue crack growth and life prediction.
The EIFS values for the steel wires were determined under various stress ranges and corrosion pit conditions.
The fatigue crack propagation path, the fatigue life, and the stress variation under different pit types and depths were investigated.
The results reveal a significant linear relationship between the maximum principal stress range and the fatigue life in logarithmic coordinates for steel wires with various pit types.
Additionally, the EIFS is found to be dependent on the stress range and the pit depth.
All the predicted outcomes fall within a range of twice the margin of error.
The accuracy of this novel method is further verified by comparing predicted results with the test data.
This research contributes to a better understanding of the fatigue performance of corroded high-strength steel wires and can assist in the design and maintenance of notched components.
S420M steel subjected to strain-controlled low-cycle fatigue does not exhibit a period of cyclic properties stabilization.
The maximum stress on a cycle continuously drops until fracture.
For this reason, it is difficult to plan experimental research for different types of control in such a way that their results can be considered comparable.
The aim of this paper is to present and discuss the results of tests conducted in various conditions of low-cycle fatigue of S420M steel specimens, both undeformed and pre-strained.
In both loading conditions, after initial deformation, a significant change in the cyclic properties of steel described by the parameters of the hysteresis loop was observed.
Also, the fatigue life of the pre-strained specimens appeared to be different from unstrained specimens and was affected by the test loading conditions.
The reduction in life under controlled stress conditions was attributed to the increase in the extent of plastic deformation and stress and the occurrence of creep.
The fatigue strength and fatigue life of high-strength steels are greatly affected by their surface roughness.
This study investigates the underlying mechanisms responsible for fatigue failure of the high-strength steel 42CrMo.
Bending fatigue tests of stepped shafts with different levels of surface roughness were conducted to observe the fatigue live reduction affected by surface topography.
Besides, the mechanical properties of 42CrMo and its strain-life relationship were established.
Moreover, the analytical formulas to describe the stress concentration factor (SCF) and fatigue notch factor (FNF) induced by surface topography were introduced.
To estimate the fatigue life of machined specimens with the consideration of surface roughness, the elastic portion of the total strain-life curve of the material was revised with the proposed analytical FNF imposed by surface topography.
Comparisons between the estimated fatigue lives and experimentally obtained fatigue lives show that the effect of surface roughness on fatigue lives could be estimated effectively and conveniently by the proposed procedure.
To evaluate the effect of the processing method (conventional sintering, S, and heat-pressing, HP) and addition of potassium titanate fibers, PTF, on the microstructure, mechanical properties (flexural strength, σf, and Weibull parameters, m and σ5%), slow crack growth parameters n (stress corrosion susceptibility coefficient), and optical properties (translucency parameter, TP, and opalescence index, OI) of a feldsphatic dental porcelain.
Disks (n = 240, Ø12 × 1 mm) of porcelain (Vintage-Halo, Shofu) were produced using S and HP methods with and without addition of 10 wt% (conventional sintering) or 5 wt% (heat-pressing) of PTF.
For the S method, porcelain was sintered in a conventional furnace.
In the HP technique, refractory molds were produced by lost wax technique.
The porcelain slurry was dry-pressed (3t/30s) to form a cylinder with 12 mm (diameter) and 20mm (height), which was heat-pressed for 5 min/3.5 bar into the mold.
Specimens were tested for biaxial flexural strength in artificial saliva at 37°C.
Weibull analysis was used to determine m and σ5%.
Slow crack growth (SCG) parameters were determined by the dynamic fatigue test, and specimens were tested in biaxial flexure at five stress rates: 10(-2), 10(-1), 10(0), 10(1) and 10(2)MPa/s (n=10), immersed in artificial saliva at 37°C.
Parameter n was calculated and statistically analyzed according to ASTM F394-78.
Optical properties were determined in a spectrophotometer in the diffuse reflectance mode.
The highest n value was obtained by the combination of heat-pressing with fiber addition (37.1) and this value was significantly higher than those obtained by both sintered groups (26.2 for control group and 27.7 for sintered with fiber).
Although heat-pressing alone also resulted in higher n values compared to the sintered groups, there were no significant differences among them.
Fiber addition had no effect on mechanical strength, but it resulted in decreased TP values and increased OI values for both processing methods.
Heat-pressing alone was able to reduce the porosity level of the porcelain.
Addition of PTF combined with heat-pressing can reduce strength degradation of a dental porcelain compared to sintered materials with or without fibers.
Heat-pressing (HP) alone should be considered as a good alternative for clinical cases where high translucency is required.
To assess the probability of survival (reliability) and failure modes of narrow implants with different diameters.
For fatigue testing, 42 implants with the same macrogeometry and internal conical connection were divided, according to diameter, as follows: narrow (Ø3.3×10mm) and extra-narrow (Ø2.9×10mm) (21 per group).
Identical abutments were torqued to the implants and standardized maxillary incisor crowns were cemented and subjected to step-stress accelerated life testing (SSALT) in water.
The use-level probability Weibull curves, and reliability for a mission of 50,000 and 100,000 cycles at 50N, 100, 150 and 180N were calculated.
For the finite element analysis (FEA), two virtual models, simulating the samples tested in fatigue, were constructed.
Loading at 50N and 100N were applied 30° off-axis at the crown.
The von-Mises stress was calculated for implant and abutment.
The beta (β) values were: 0.67 for narrow and 1.32 for extra-narrow implants, indicating that failure rates did not increase with fatigue in the former, but more likely were associated with damage accumulation and wear-out failures in the latter.
Both groups showed high reliability (up to 97.5%) at 50 and 100N.
A decreased reliability was observed for both groups at 150 and 180N (ranging from 0 to 82.3%), but no significant difference was observed between groups.
Failure predominantly involved abutment fracture for both groups.
FEA at 50N-load, Ø3.3mm showed higher von-Mises stress for abutment (7.75%) and implant (2%) when compared to the Ø2.9mm. There was no significant difference between narrow and extra-narrow implants regarding probability of survival. The failure mode was similar for both groups, restricted to abutment fracture.
Microdamage accumulates in bone matrix and is repaired through bone remodeling.
Conditions such as osteoporosis and treatment with antiresorptive bisphosphonates can influence this remodeling process.
In order to study microdamage accrual and repair in the context of osteoporosis and osteon structures, we set out to modify the rabbit forelimb fatigue model.
New Zealand White rabbits (N = 43, 10 months old) received either ovariectomy (OVX) or sham surgeries and were used for forelimb fatigue loading.
OVX increased fluorochrome labeling of intracortical and periosteal bone of the ulna, without changes in bone mass.
Monotonic and cyclic loading of the forelimb did not reveal any statistical differences between stiffness, ultimate force, or displacement to failure between sham and OVX rabbits.
Two levels of fatigue loading, chosen to represent "low" and "moderate" fatigue (25% and 40% of total displacement to failure, respectively), were used on OVX forelimbs to examine microdamage creation.
However, neither group showed increased damage burden as compared to non-loaded controls.
Following fatigue loading rabbit ulnae had increased intracortical remodeling and periosteal lamellar bone formation in "moderate" fatigue limbs, although no basic multicellular units or microdamage-targeted remodeling was observed.
In summary, we adapted the rabbit forelimb fatigue model to accommodate OVX animals.
However, loading parameters that could induce repeatable microdamage burden were not identified.
Thus, while increased intracortical remodeling and periosteal bone formation were induced by our fatigue loading regimen, this preliminary study did not establish conditions to allow future study of the interactions between microdamage accrual and repair.
This paper presents a review of four existing growth models for near-neutral pH stress corrosion cracking (NNpHSCC) defects on buried oil and gas pipelines: Chen et al.'s model, two models developed at the Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) and Xing et al.'s model.
All four models consider corrosion fatigue enhanced by hydrogen embrittlement as the main growth mechanism for NNpHSCC.
The predictive accuracy of these growth models is investigated based on 39 crack growth rates obtained from full-scale tests conducted at the CanmetMATERIALS of Natural Resources Canada of pipe specimens that are in contact with NNpH soils and subjected to cyclic internal pressures.
The comparison of the observed and predicted crack growth rates indicates that the hydrogen-enhanced decohesion (HEDE) component of Xing et al.'s model leads to on average reasonably accurate predictions with the corresponding mean and coefficient of variation (COV) of the observed-to-predicted ratios being 1.06 and 61.2%, respectively.
The predictive accuracy of the other three models are markedly poorer.
The analysis results suggest that further research is needed to improve existing growth models or develop new growth models to facilitate the pipeline integrity management practice with respect to NNpHSCC.
To determine the slow crack growth (SCG) and Weibull parameters of five dental ceramics: a vitreous porcelain (V), a leucite-based porcelain (D), a leucite-based glass-ceramic (E1), a lithium disilicate glass-ceramic (E2) and a glass-infiltrated alumina composite (IC).
Eighty disks (Ø 12 mm × 1.1mm thick) of each material were constructed according to manufacturers' recommendations and polished.
The stress corrosion susceptibility coefficient (n) was obtained by dynamic fatigue test, and specimens were tested in biaxial flexure at five stress rates immersed in artificial saliva at 37 °C.
Weibull parameters were calculated for the 30 specimens tested at 1 MPa/s in artificial saliva at 37 °C.
The 80 specimens were distributed as follows: 10 for each stress rate (10(-2), 10(-1), 10(1), 10(2)MPa/s), 10 for inert strength (10(2)MPa/s, silicon oil) and 30 for 10(0)MPa/s.
Fractographic analysis was also performed to investigate the fracture origin.
E2 showed the lowest slow crack growth susceptibility coefficient (17.2), followed by D (20.4) and V (26.3).
E1 and IC presented the highest n values (30.1 and 31.1, respectively).
Porcelain V presented the lowest Weibull modulus (5.2).
All other materials showed similar Weibull modulus values, ranging from 9.4 to 11.7.
Fractographic analysis indicated that for porcelain D, glass-ceramics E1 and E2, and composite IC crack deflection was the main toughening mechanism.
This study provides a detailed microstructural and slow crack growth characterization of widely used dental ceramics.
This is important from a clinical standpoint to assist the clinician in choosing the best ceramic material for each situation as well as predicting its clinical longevity.
It also can be helpful in developing new materials for dental prostheses.
Total hip arthroplasty stem fracture is an important contributor to morbidity rate and increases the cost of revision surgery.
Failure is usually caused by issues related to overload, inadequate stem support, inappropriate stem design or dimensions and material processing.
In this study, the role of the relationship between material characterization and biomechanical performance in the fracture of retrieved stems was explored.
The stems were manufactured with forged stainless steel, had the same length, 12/14 trunnion, and 28-mm head.
These stems were evaluated by macroscopic and microscopic examination to identify the causes of premature failure.
Each stem was sectioned into four regions, and the cross-sections were used for the microhardness and grain size analysis.
Finite element analysis (FEA) was carried out, considering the stem positioned at the femur, a musculoskeletal model, and biomechanical loading.
All stems had fractured through a fatigue mechanism, mainly a unidirectional bending loading condition, with crack nucleation on the lateral side and propagation on the medial side.
The numerical analysis revealed maximum mechanical stress on the lateral side of the stem neck, but this was below the yield stress calculated via the hardness.
The use of a shorter head neck length could reduce the maximum mechanical stress at the neck.
At a cross-section near the plane of the stem fracture, the hardness was lower than that normally reported by the ASM, and there were heterogonous and coarse grain sizes on the lateral side.
The main cause of failure of the two stems analyzed was a combination of low hardness and coarse grain size, due to inappropriate materials processing, worsen by a high level of stress on the lateral side of the neck due to the large stem-head offset selected by the orthopedic surgeon.
This paper presents a novel approach utilizing nonlinear ultrasonic guided waves for the detection and evaluation of high-cycle fatigue damage in aluminum alloy plates.
Through high-cycle fatigue testing, specimens with varying degrees of fatigue damage were created and evaluated using ultrasonic-guided wave measurement technology.
The integration of time-frequency analyses effectively reduced the impact of wave dispersion and resonance effects, establishing a reliable operational frequency bandwidth.
The results identified a positive correlation between the amplitude of odd harmonic components caused by hysteresis nonlinearity and fatigue crack length, while an inverse correlation was observed with specimen resonance frequency.
The results confirm the high sensitivity and accuracy of this approach for early fatigue damage detection, offering a significant advancement in the non-destructive evaluation of engineering structures and a foundation for structural failure prevention.
Mammalian skeletal muscles consist of two main fibre types: slow-twitch (type I, oxidative) and fast-twitch (type IIa, fast oxidative; type IIb/IIx, fast glycolytic).
Muscle fibre composition switch is closely associated with chronic diseases such as muscle atrophy, obesity, type II diabetes and athletic performance.
Prostaglandin D Skeletal muscle-specific PGD PGD DP2 activation suppresses oxidative fibre transition via RhoA/ROCK2/NFATc1 signalling.
The inhibition of DP2 may be a potential therapeutic approach against obesity and muscle disorders.
This study selected 17-4PH (Type 630) precipitation-hardening stainless steel as the raw material. After subjecting the material to precipitation hardening and softening heat treatments, the effects of these treatments on the microstructural characteristics and mechanical properties were investigated, along with a thermal fatigue test.
The results showed that after the precipitation hardening heat treatment, the ultimate tensile strength and hardness of 17-4PH stainless steel increased.
However, the ductility was around 2%, indicating a severe brittleness effect, which is unfavorable for ordnance applications.
A double aging treatment for 12 h resulted in a combination of softness and ductility, with an ultimate tensile strength of 900 MPa, ductility of 26%, and hardness HRC 28.
These material properties are suitable for cold forging in ordnance and other applications.
In addition, a thermal fatigue test was conducted on the softened 17-4PH material from 750 °C to room temperature.
After 3000 thermal cycles, there was no significant change in material properties, ensuring it can withstand 3000 rounds of gunfire in a barrel with excellent durability.
Furthermore, XRD and fracture surface analysis confirmed that the softening mechanism of 17-4PH stainless steel and its high-temperature phase stability could provide a reference for cold forging and high-temperature applications.
The material properties of individual micro-struts are critical to the overall success of lattice structures.
These properties can be significantly compromised by defects inherited from powder bed fusion processes.
Among these defects, porous inclusions are well understood to have a detrimental effect on mechanical properties; posing a high risk to the implant under loading.
While the majority of these defects can be avoided through optimisation of printing parameters, this has generally only been done for traditional bulk components with no in-designed porosity.
Furthermore, a number of studies have observed changes in the frequency of such porous inclusions as feature size is reduced, indicating a size effect.
This also suggests that the optimal parameters for bulk material are not necessarily translatable to the individual micro-struts which build the lattice.
In this study, the relationship between parameter optimisation and feature size was investigated.
Here, a higher energy density input was required for processing micro-strut lattices with an optimised relative density, than it was for bulk components.
This could be attributed to faster rates of heat loss in micro-strut samples on account of their increased surface-to-volume ratio.
The consequential improvement in mechanical properties was also assessed.
An increase in both strength and stiffness could be largely attributed to an increase in the percentage volume of load bearing material, while improvements in failure strain were largely driven by minimisation of stress concentrations around the irregular pore morphologies.
Fatigue properties did not improve beyond the effects of yielding.
Rather, crack initiation was dominated by surface defects; which on account of their surface free energy, experience a much higher stress intensity factor.
This study evaluated the fatigue performance of nitrided H13 steel with and without a compound layer (CL), using two nitrogen potentials (K
A newly designed spinal implant was tested to evaluate multicycle stiffness and fatigue resistance.
To investigate the effect of different materials, connecting plate, and pedicle screw design on the mechanical performance of the spinal implant.
The addition of cross-linkages did not significantly increase implant compression/flexion stiffness, but accelerated fatigue failure at the rod junctions.
Both Ti-6Al-4V spinal implants and the 316L stainless-steel counterparts have been used extensively for clinical cases; however, design factors establishing the proposed superiority of the Ti-6Al-4V implant for fatigue resistance have not, as yet, been extensively studied.
Twenty implants with connecting plates (two materials by two screw designs by five implants) and five implants without connecting plates were assembled to UHMWPE blocks and cyclically loaded from 60 N to 600 N at a frequency of 5 Hz.
Failure sites for the tested prototypes were at the cephalic screw hubs or rod-plate junctions.
All Ti-6Al-4V implants demonstrated reduced stiffness compared to the structurally identical 316L analogs.
The use of connecting plates raised the stiffness of the 316L prototypes without cross-links.
However, elimination of the connecting plate avoided stress concentration at the rod/plate junctions and increased fatigue life.
The Ti-6Al-4V new system with the minimal notch effect at the screw hubs achieved greater fatigue resistance than its 316L counterpart.
By contrast, enlargement of the inner-hub diameter resulted in greater gains for fatigue resistance than for stiffness, especially for Ti-6Al-4V variants.
Although Ti-6Al-4V was superior to 316L for endurance-limit properties, structural design of the Ti-6Al-4V implant dramatically affects fatigue resistance.
This may explain the differences between existing studies and the current report, comparing fatigue life for implants made from these two materials.
Our results reveal that Ti-6Al-4V must be carefully treated because of sensitivity to notch, with special consideration given to screw-hub design.
The Ti-6Al-4V alloy is widely used in the manufacture of components that must have low density and high corrosion resistance and fatigue strength.
The fatigue strength can be improved by surface modification.
The aim of this study was to determine the influence of plasma nitriding on the fatigue behavior of a Ti-6Al-4V alloy with a lamellar microstructure (Widmanstätten type).
Nitriding was executed at 720 °C for 4 h in an atmosphere with N₂, Ar, and H₂.
Microstructure characterization of the samples was carried out by X-ray diffraction analysis, optical microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy.
The average roughness of the specimens was determined, and fatigue tests were executed in a bending⁻rotating machine with reverse tension cycles (R = -1).
X-ray diffraction analysis of the nitrided alloy revealed the following matrix phases: α, β, ε-Ti₂N, and δ-TiN.
A nitrogen diffusion layer was formed between the substrate and the titanium nitrides.
Plasma nitriding resulted in an increase in low-cycle fatigue strength, whereas at high cycles of 200 MPa, both conditions exhibited similar behaviors.
The fracture surface of the fatigue-tested specimens clearly revealed the lamellar microstructure.
The fracture mechanism in the non-nitrided specimens appears to be due to cracking at the interface of the α and β phases of the lamellar microstructure.
Workers in manufacturing settings experience highly variable musculoskeletal loading, which current risk assessment methods often fail to fully capture.
This study evaluated a Fatigue Failure-Based framework for estimating continuous lumbar loading from variable occupational loads.
Worker movements and postures were recorded using Inertial Motion Capture technologies, and L5/S1 joint loading history was estimated through inverse dynamics.
Stress cycles were analysed using Rainflow analysis, adjusted with Goodman's method, and summed using Palmgren-Miner rule to estimate cumulative damage.
The framework was tested in live industrial settings with eight automotive workers across 108 trials.
Logistic regression models demonstrated significant correlations between cumulative damage estimates and self-reported low-back pain (OR = 2.16, 95% CI: 1.30, 3.57).
This framework provides a novel method for analysing highly variable loading to estimate cumulative exposure in ergonomics, offering a starting point for future research and potential applications in assessing low back injury risks in similar occupational settings.
This study evaluated a fatigue failure-based framework for assessing low back injury risk due to cumulative lumbar loading in industrial settings using Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs).
The investigation involved analysing workers’ continuous biomechanical loading to estimate injury risk due to cumulative damage accumulation.
The results of this case study revealed a significant correlation between cumulative damage estimates and low back pain.
Retrieval studies indicate that cemented stem loosening in femoral components of total hip replacement can initiate at the stem-cement interface.
The etiology of the crack propagation process from the stem-cement interface is not well understood, but cracks are typically associated with thin cement mantles.
In this study, a combination of experimental and computational methods was used to investigate the fatigue crack propagation process from the stem-PMMA cement interface using a novel torsional loading model.
Constructs with thin (1 mm), medium (3 mm) or thick (7 mm) cement mantles were evaluated.
Crack growth was stable for all cases and the rate of crack growth diminished with increasing crack length.
Crack growth rate did not depend on mantle thickness (p > 0.05) over the first 1 mm of crack length, but cracks in thin mantles reached the full thickness of the mantle in the fewest number of loading cycles.
The fracture mechanics-based finite element models indicated decreased stress intensity factors with increasing crack length and were consistent with the experimental findings.
When combined with a fatigue crack growth Paris-law for PMMA cement, the finite element models provided reasonable predictions of the crack growth process.
The aim of this study was to compare cyclic fatigue resistance of four nickel-titanium rotary systems and to evaluate their surface, fractographic, and matrix morphology.
Four models of endodontic rotary files (EasyShape [Komet/Gebr.
Brasseler, Lemgo, Germany], ProTaper [Dentsply Maillefer, Ballaigues, Switzerland], NRT [MANI Inc, Toshigi-Ken, Japan], and AlphaKite [Komet/Gebr.
Brasseler]) were subjected to fatigue testing in artificial canals with angle of curvature of 45° and 60° and a radius of curvature of 5 mm until fracture occurred.
Nickel-titanium (NiTi) alloy properties were investigated by light microscopy, environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM), and energy dispersive x-ray spectrophotometry (EDS).
ESEM analysis was conducted on new files to examine surface characteristics and on fractured samples to identify the crack origin and the fractographic features.
Analysis of variance testing revealed significant differences (P < .001) among the groups.
NRT files had the highest fatigue resistance followed by AlphaKite, EasyShape, and ProTaper.
All the new files presented surface imperfections.
Fractographic analysis found the crack initiation to originate at the level of surface irregularities.
Optical microscope inspection of the NiTi alloy matrix disclosed different-sized nonmetallic inclusions among models.
EDS analysis of these inclusions showed that they were composed of carbon and oxygen in addition to nickel and titanium.
Under light microscopy, austenitic grains appeared larger near the handle and smaller near the tip in all instruments.
NRT files presented the longest fatigue life.
All samples showed surface irregularities and nonmetallic inclusions.
Austenitic grains were smaller near the tip than near the handle.
The angle of curvature was confirmed to influence the fatigue life of NiTi instruments.
Present research aims to develop a finite element computational model to examine delamination-fretting wear behaviour that can suitably mimic actual loading conditions at HAp-Ti-6Al-4V interface of uncemented hip implant femoral stem component.
A simple finite element contact configuration model based on fretting fatigue experimental arrangement subjected to different mechanical and tribological properties consist of contact pad (bone), HAp coating and Ti-6Al-4V substrate are developed using adaptive wear modelling approach adopting modified Archard wear equation to be examined under static simulation.
The developed finite element model is validated and verified with reported literatures.
The findings revealed that significant delamination-fretting wear is recorded at contact edge (leading edge) as a result of substantial contact pressure and contact slip driven by stress singularity effect.
The delamination-fretting wear behaviour is promoted under higher delamination length, lower normal loading with higher fatigue loading, increased porous (cancellous) and cortical bone elastic modulus with higher cycle number due to significant relative slip amplitude as the result of reduced interface rigidity.
Tensile-compressive condition (R=-1) experiences most significant delamination-fretting wear behaviour (8 times higher) compared to stress ratio R=0.1 and R=10.
Despite the extensive literature on the mechanical characteristics and failure properties of poly(methyl methacrylate) bone cement, little is known of its fatigue crack initiation process.
The most likely in vivo bone cement fatigue crack initiation sites are internal flaws and irregularities on the bone cement surface.
The stress concentration created by a flaw, and subsequently the stress state at that flaw, depends on the flaw geometry.
To model the fatigue crack initiation process of a flaw, it is necessary to reproduce the stress state at that flaw.
In this study, a special mold was designed to introduce notches with specific tip radii into fatigue specimens.
The notch was molded into the specimen to simulate the in vivo flaw formation process.
The molding method allows control of the stress concentration by specifying the notch tip radius.
We created notched specimens where the tip radii of the notches ranged from "sharp" (< 3 microm) to 400 microm.
The results demonstrated that notched specimens created by the special mold satisfied two necessary requirements for fatigue crack initiation studies: (1) the material microstructure at the notch tip must not be disrupted by the notching process, and (2) the notch tip stress field, determined by the notch tip geometry, must be reproducible.
Microstructural analyses of commercially pure titanium (CpTi) are scarce.
The present report presents the micrographs, fractographs, elemental characteristics, and hardness profiles of brazed joints and weldments using machined rods of CpTi.
CpTi rods were joined using four techniques: laser welding, electric-arc welding, electron-beam welding, and gold- and Ti-filler brazing.
The specimens were then subjected to tensile and fatigue loading.
After sectioning and patterning, optical micrographs of intact joints were obtained.
Fractured surfaces were investigated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
The joint's composition was determined by SEM-energy dispersive x-ray analysis.
Hardness was determined at specific locations using a microindenter.
While laser welding left the parent metal's equiaxed structure fairly intact, electric-arc welding, electron-beam welding, and brazing created a heat-affected zone in the vicinity of the joint.
The extent and characteristics of the heat-affected zone depended on the amount of heat transferred to the specimens.
In this respect, brazing essentially increased grain size and altered their shape.
Electron-beam welding augmented this phenomenon, yielding grains that encompassed the full diameter of the joint.
Electric-arc welding disrupted the granular pattern and generated highly lamellar/acicular structures.
Hardness was not a good indicator of mechanical resistance, nor was the joint's structural continuity with the parent substrate.
Still, acicular microstructures were characterized by a peculiar behavior in that such joints were highly resistant to tensile stresses while their fatigue strength ranged among the lowest of the joints tested.
Most fatigue theories neglect the loads below fatigue limit in damage accumulation, which leads to inconsistency between the predicted and the actual fatigue lives.
In this study, a novel damage model is proposed to take into account the loads below fatigue limit from two aspects: the strengthening effect and the cumulative damage.
The strengthening effect is introduced by an exponential function and the cumulative damage is calculated by fuzzy method with membership functions (MFs).
The proposed model is verified against the experimental data under variable amplitude loading conditions.
It is found the modified model with Cauchy MF significantly reduces the relative error of predicted life from 35.18% (linear model) and 16.09% (original Chaboche model) to 8.38% (proposed model).
As a case study, the proposed damage model is implemented to evaluate the service life of a compressor blade under variable amplitude loading spectrum containing small loads below the fatigue limit.
In this paper, the deformation behavior of UNS S32750 (S32750) duplex stainless steel during low cycle fatigue was studied by controlling the number of cycles.
The microstructure of the specimens under different cycles was characterized by optical microscope (OM), scanning electron microscope (SEM), electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD), and transmission electron microscope (TEM).
The microhardness of the two phases was measured by a digital microhardness instrument.
The results showed that the microhardness of ferrite increases significantly after the first 4000 cycles, while the austenite shows a higher strain hardening rate after fatigue fracture, and the microhardness of ferrite and austenite increases by 23 HV and 87 HV, respectively.
The two-phase kernel average misorientation (KAM) diagram showed that the continuous accumulation of plastic deformation easily leads to the initiation of cracks inside the austenite and at the phase boundaries.
The evolution of dislocation morphology in the two phases was obviously different.
With the increase in cycle number, the dislocation in ferrite gradually transforms from dislocation bundles and a dislocation array to a sub-grain structure, while the dislocation in austenite gradually develops from dipole array to an ordered Taylor lattice network structure.
The large cutout structure is a key component in the bottom skin of an airplane wing, and is susceptible to developing fatigue cracks under service loads.
Early fatigue crack detection is crucial to ensure structural safety and reduce maintenance costs.
Nonlinear Lamb wave techniques show significant potential in microcrack monitoring.
However, nonlinear components are often relatively weak.
In addition, a large cutout structure introduces complex boundary conditions for Lamb wave propagation, making nonlinear Lamb wave monitoring more challenging.
This article proposes an integrated data processing method, combining phase inversion with continuous wavelet transform (CWT) to enhance crack detection in complex structures, with phase-velocity desynchronization adopted to suppress the material nonlinearity.
Experiments on a large cutout aluminum alloy plate with thickness variations were conducted to validate the proposed method, and the results demonstrated its effectiveness in detecting fatigue cracks.
Furthermore, this study found that nonlinear components are more effective than linear components in monitoring closed cracks.
Tensile fracture experiments were performed upon specimens of wet mature bovine Haversian bone, with short, controlled notches.
Stress concentration factors were found to be significantly less than values predicted using a maximum stress criterion in the theory of elasticity.
Results were also modeled with the aid of linear elastic fracture mechanics.
Agreement of experiment with theory was better in this case, however deviations were seen for short notches.
Two mechanisms were evaluated for the behavior: plasticity near the crack tip, and effects of the Haversian microstructure, modelled by Cosserat elasticity, a generalized continuum theory.
Plastic zone effects were found to be insignificant.
Cosserat elasticity, by contrast, predicted stress concentration factors which better approximated observed values.
To explore strain redistribution processes, further experiments were conducted upon notched specimens in torsion at small strain.
They disclosed a strain redistribution effect consistent with Cosserat elasticity.
These microelastic effects were attributed to the Haversian architecture of bone.
The implications of the results are that bone resists the effect of stress raisers such as fatigue microcracks and surgical sawcuts to a much greater extent than anticipated on the basis of its elastic or elastoplastic properties.
Accumulation of sub-rupture fatigue damage has been implicated in the development of tendinopathy.
We previously developed an in vivo model of damage accumulation using the rat patellar tendon.
Our model allows us to control the input loading parameters to induce fatigue damage in the tendon.
Despite this precise control, the resulting induced damage could vary among animals because of differences in size or strength among their patellar tendons.
In this study, we used number of applied cycles and initial (day-0) parameters that are indicative of induced damage to assess the molecular response 7 days after fatigue loading.
We hypothesized that day-0 hysteresis, elongation, and stiffness of the loading and unloading load-displacement curves would be predictive of the 7-day molecular response.
Results showed correlations between the 7-day molecular response and both day-0 elongation and unloading stiffness.
Additionally, loading resulted in upregulation of several extracellular matrix genes that suggest adaptation; however, several of these genes (Col-I, -XII, MMP 2, and TIMP 3) shut down after a high level of damage was induced.
We showed that evaluating the 7-day molecular profile in light of day-0 elongation provides important insight that is lost from comparing number of fatigue loading cycles only.
Our data showed that loading generally results in an adaptive response.
However, the tendon's ability to effectively respond deteriorates as greater damage is induced.
Post-mortem characterisation is a pivotal tool to trace back to the origin of structural failures in modern engineering analyses.
This work compared both the crack propagation and rupture roughness profiles based on areal parameters for total fracture area.
Notched and smooth samples made of weather-resistant structural steel (10HNAP), popular S355J2 structural steel and aluminium alloy AW-2017A under bending, torsion and combined bending-torsion were investigated.
After the fatigue tests, fatigue fractures were measured with an optical profilometer, and the relevant surface parameters were critically compared.
The results showed a great impact of the loading scenario on both the local profiles and total fracture areas.
Both approaches (local and total fracture zones) for specimens with different geometries were investigated.
For all specimens, measured texture parameters decreased in the following order: total area, rupture area and propagation area.
The aim of the study was to track changes in the spectrum of electromyographic (EMG) signals recorded from the feline multifidus muscles during stretching of the supraspinous ligament.
The ligaments were exposed to external 40 N-tension for six consecutive trials of 10-min duration.
Two experimental groups were formed, according to the rest periods supplied (10 or 20 min).
EMG signals were recorded intramuscularly from the right multifidus muscles.
The EMG signals from each trial were split into segments.
For each segment, a representative averaged motor unit potential (AvMUP) was determined.
The number of single MUPs averaged to obtain AvMUP was defined as muscular activity.
The relative changes in a muscle fatigue index, median frequency as well as activity were analyzed.
It was concluded that faster and powerful motor units are recruited firstly, in order to quickly provide stronger support to the spine and/or as a reaction to a minor damage of tissue.
Depending on the applied rest periods, peripheral fatigue might be accumulated.
This study investigated the effects of different substrates on the mechanical properties of Ti-60at%Ni shape memory alloys (SMA).
Two types of samples were prepared for this experiment: (1) a Ti-60at%Ni deposited on SiNx, and (2) a Ti-60at%Ni deposited on SiNx/Cr; both had a 600 nm thick film of Ti-60at%Ni.
Deposition was done using the physical vapor deposition (PVD) process, and the microstructural changes and crystallization phase changes were observed through scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD).
The results showed that the TiNi thin film with a Cr adhesion layer had better mechanical properties.
The bulge test showed that TiNi thin film with a Cr adhesion had a higher Young's modulus and lower residual stress.
From the thermal cycling experiment, it was found that the Cr adhesion layer buffered the mismatch between TiNi and SiNx.
Additionally, the thermal cycling test was also used to measure the thermal expansion coefficient of the films, and the fatigue test showed that the Cr layer significantly improved the fatigue resistance of the TiNi film.
Failure of total hip arthroplasty femoral stems is a serious clinical complication.
Even modern metal alloys and designs sometimes suffer such incidents.
The reported study aimed at the investigation of the reasons leading the in vivo fracture of two Ti6Al4V femoral stems.
Stems were retrieved during revision surgery approximately 2 years postoperatively.
Examination and analysis included XRF spectrometry for identification of chemical composition, macroscopic examination and topographical measurements, SEM study of fracture surfaces, study of alloy microstructure by optical microscopy, and finally measurement of mechanical properties by means of tensile testing conducted on alloy samples machined from the stems themselves.
Macroscopic examination and measurements showed close topographical similarity between the two fractures.
XRF spectrometry, tensile testing, and microstructure analysis identified the alloy as a typical Ti6Al4V surgical titanium alloy.
During SEM analysis the fracture surfaces exhibited characteristic fatigue striations tidally running on the cross sections, which were considered as the weakest ones regarding toward geometry and stress concentration.
Fracture in both stems occurred due to fatigue along these cross sections.
McArdle disease (muscle glycogenosis type V) is caused by myophosphorylase deficiency, which leads to impaired glycogen breakdown.
We investigated how myophosphorylase deficiency affects muscle physiology, morphology, and glucose metabolism in 20-week-old McArdle mice and compared the findings to those in McArdle disease patients.
Muscle contractions in the McArdle mice were affected by structural degeneration due to glycogen accumulation, and glycolytic muscles fatigued prematurely, as occurs in the muscles of McArdle disease patients.
Homozygous McArdle mice showed muscle fiber disarray, variations in fiber size, vacuoles, and some internal nuclei associated with cytosolic glycogen accumulation and ongoing regeneration; structural damage was seen only in a minority of human patients.
Neither liver nor brain isoforms of glycogen phosphorylase were upregulated in muscles, thus providing no substitution for the missing muscle isoform.
In the mice, the tibialis anterior (TA) muscles were invariably more damaged than the quadriceps muscles.
This may relate to a 7-fold higher level of myophosphorylase in TA compared to quadriceps in wild-type mice and suggests higher glucose turnover in the TA.
Thus, despite differences, the mouse model of McArdle disease shares fundamental physiological and clinical features with the human disease and could be used for studies of pathogenesis and development of therapies.
Cyclic loading of bone during daily activities can lead to fatigue degradation and increased risk of fracture in both the young and elderly population.
Damage processes under cyclic loading in trabecular bone result in the reduction of the elastic modulus and accumulation of residual strain.
These effects increase with increasing stress levels, leading to a progressive reduction in fatigue life.
The present work analyzes the effect of stress and strain variation on the above damage processes in bovine trabecular bone, and develops a phenomenological model relating fatigue life to the imposed stress level.
The elastic modulus reduction of the bone specimens was observed to depend on the maximum compressive strain, while the rate of residual strain accumulation was a function of the stress level.
A model was developed for the upper and lower bounds of bone elastic modulus reduction with increasing number of cycles, at each stress range.
The experimental observations were described well by the model.
The model predicted the bounds of the fatigue life with change in fatigue stress.
The decrease in the fatigue life with increasing stress was related to corresponding increases in the residual strain accumulation rates at the elevated stress levels.
The model shows the validity of fatigue predictions from relatively few cyclic experiments, by combining trends observed in the monotonic and the cyclic tests.
The model also presents a relatively simple procedure for predicting the endurance limit for bovine trabecular bone specimens.
Ti-Al matrix alloy reinforced with a high content of boron was fabricated by using a high-temperature alloying method and powder metallurgy technique (P/M).
The preparation method of Ti-Al-B alloying powder was put forward.
Phases, microstructure, and mechanical properties of the alloys were investigated.
Wear and friction performance were studied by using a ball-on-disc tribotester sliding against a Si
Titanium alloys are widely used in the aerospace industry.
However, due to presence of microtexture, which is characterized by preferred crystallographic orientation clustering of thousands of alpha crystallites, cold dwell fatigue may significantly reduce the part life.
To satisfy the practical need for nondestructive microtexture characterization, an inverse ultrasonic methodology is proposed to quantify mean parameters of microtexture regions (MTRs) having ellipsoidal shapes.
One limitation of previous model-based ultrasonic inversion methods is required knowledge of elastic constants of the crystallites, which are rarely available for engineering alloys.
This study overcomes this constraint by adopting the far field attenuation model, JASA, 137 (5), 2655-2669 (2015), and the backscattering model for ultrasonic wave interaction with microtexture.
In the methodology developed, all necessary averaged MTR characteristics are obtained solely from directional ultrasonic measurements (backscattering, attenuation, and velocity) without a prior knowledge of material microstructures or elastic properties of different material phases.
The inversion method is illustrated by simulations.
To support the inversion methodology, the mean MTR sizes, morphology, and elastic scattering factors are determined from the ultrasonic experiment on a Ti-6242 alloy sample.
The inversion results are compared with destructive electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) analysis from which the MTRs are segmented using a non-contiguous grouping criteria.
Interaction between mechanical and chemical fatigue of resin composites was investigated.
Fatigue fracture resistance of composites after (1) water immersion and under (2) dry and (3) aqueous conditions was analyzed using a fatigue crack propagation test.
The characteristics of fatigue crack propagation were expressed as the correlation between the fatigue crack growth rate (da/dN) and stress intensity factor range (DeltaK) and by the fatigue crack growth threshold (DeltaKth).
Following the fatigue test, a fractographic examination was performed by scanning electron microscopy.
Contrary to common perception, fatigue crack propagation was retarded under aqueous conditions but accelerated after water immersion.
In addition, fatigue cracks detoured around inorganic macro-fillers, but penetrated organic fillers.
It was concluded that the inverse effects of water on fatigue resistance of composites are dependent on the experimental conditions.
Moreover, inorganic macro-fillers were shown to be functional in retarding fatigue cracks in composites.
To generate advanced properties for the wear resistance and fatigue life of components and allow for an improved, application-oriented development of part specifications, a precisely tailored initial machining or manufacturing process is necessary.
In addition, it is important to know how subsequent machining steps or operational loads affect the components' condition.
Residual stresses are a meaningful measurand for evaluating the modifications that a machining process induces into the material. The desired modifications should be specified regarding the final state for the required operational behavior.
Thus, the stability of the modifications can be considered so that they can be beneficial in service.
This investigation is part of fundamental research in the field of the Collaborative Research Center (CRC) "Process Signatures".
By applying defined selected loads, the effects on machined surface layers are investigated since machined components are exposed to further loads during use.
For this reason, experimental process chains are applied in this work to grind-strengthened specimens as possible application cases and corresponding loads.
These experimental process chains consist of defined mechanical and thermal loads, which are applied to the specimens using a thermal and mechanical testing system.
Furthermore, it is investigated how these additional loads affect the modifications previously introduced by the grinding process.
The influence of the additional loads is evaluated by using radiographic and electron microscopic examinations.
It can be observed that the sequence, as well as the type of the applied loads, play a significant role in the development of the modifications.
Fatigue damage occurs in response to repeated cyclic loading and has been observed in situ in cortical bone of humans and other animals.
When microcracks accumulate and coalesce, failure ensues and is referred to as fatigue fracture.
Experimental study of fatigue fracture healing is inherently difficult due to the lack of noninvasive models.
In this study, we hypothesized that repeated cyclic loading of the rat ulna results in a fatigue fracture.
The aim of the study was to develop a noninvasive long bone fatigue fracture model that induces failure through accumulation and coalescence of microdamage and replicates the morphology of a clinical fracture.
Using modified end-load bending, right ulnae of adult Sprague-Dawley rats were cyclically loaded in vivo to fatigue failure based on increased bone compliance, which reflects changes in bone stiffness due to microdamage.
Preterminal tracer studies with 0.8% Procion Red solution were conducted according to protocols described previously to evaluate perfusion of the vasculature as well as the lacunocanalicular system at different time points during healing.
Eighteen of the 20 animals loaded sustained a fatigue fracture of the medial ulna, i.e. through the compressive cortex.
In all cases, the fracture was closed and non-displaced.
No disruption to the periosteum or intramedullary vasculature was observed.
The loading regime did not produce soft tissue trauma; in addition, no haematoma was observed in association with application of load.
Healing proceeded via proliferative woven bone formation, followed by consolidation within 42 days postfracture.
In sum, a noninvasive long bone fatigue fracture model was developed that lends itself for the study of internal remodeling of periosteal woven bone during fracture healing and has obvious applications for the study of fatigue fracture etiology.
The low-cycle deformation of 304L austenitic stainless steel was examined in terms of energy conversion.
Specimens were subjected to cyclic loading at the frequency of 2 Hz.
The loading process was carried out in a hybrid strain-stress manner.
In each cycle, the increase in elongation of the gauge part of the specimen was constant.
During experimental procedures, infrared and visible-range images of strain and temperature fields were recorded simultaneously using infrared thermography (IR) and digital image correlation (DIC) systems.
On the basis of the obtained test results, the energy storage rate, defined as the ratio of the stored energy increment to the plastic work increment, was calculated and expressed in reference to selected sections of the specimen.
It was shown that, before the specimen fracture in a specific area, the energy storage rate is equal to zero (the material loses the ability to store energy), and the energy stored during the deformation process is released and dissipated as heat. Negative and close-to-zero values of the energy storage rate can be used as a plastic instability criterion on the macroscale.
Thus, the loss of energy storage ability by a deformed material can be treated as an indicator of fatigue crack initiation.
Micro relative sliding exists on the contact surface of the main primary equipment's surface structures, resulting in serious fretting fatigue.
The plastic effect causes serious fatigue to the structure under alternating loads.
Existing fatigue life prediction models fail to fully consider the shortcomings of fretting and plastic effects, which causes the prediction results to be significantly different to real-lifeworld in engineering situations.
Therefore, it is urgent to establish a fretting damage fatigue life prediction model of contact structures which considers plastic effects.
In this study, a plastic fretting fatigue life prediction model was established according to the standard structural contact theory.
The location of dangerous points was evaluated according to a finite element simulation.
The cyclic load maximum stress value was compared with the fretting fatigue test data to confirm the error value, and the error between the proposed fretting fatigue life model and the test value was within 15%.
Concurrently, we combined this with mass data analysis and research, as it is known that the contact zone parameters have an impact on fretting fatigue and affect the structural lifespan.
With the help of ABAQUS, the fretting numerical calculation of the dovetail tenon model was carried out to analyze the sensitive factors affecting the fretting fatigue life of the dovetail tenon structure.
By keeping the fretting load unchanged, the contact area parameters such as contact surface form, contact area width and friction coefficient were changed in order to calculate the fretting stress value,
Titanium and the Ti6Al4V alloy have long been recognized as materials with high biocompatibility.
Despite these advantages, the lack of good wear resistance makes the use of titanium and Ti6Al4V difficult in some biomedical applications, for example, articulating components of prostheses.
To overcome this limitation, nitriding has been investigated as a surface-hardening method for titanium.
Although nitriding greatly improves the wear resistance, this method reduces the fatigue strength.
Low cycle fatigue performance in air of nitrided Ti6Al4V at different deformation amplitudes has been studied.
Results show a reduction of low cycle fatigue life of up to 10% compared to the non-treated material. Studies suggest it is not related to the titanium nitride surface layer, but to microstructural changes caused by the high temperature treatment.
(Journal of Applied Biomaterial & Biomechanics 2003; 1: 43-7).
This paper investigates the effect of retrogression time on the fatigue crack growth of a modified AA7475 aluminum alloy.
Tests including tensile strength, fracture toughness, and fatigue limits were performed to understand the changes in properties with different retrogression procedures at 180 °C.
The microstructure was characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
The findings indicated that as the retrogression time increased, the yield strength decreased from 508 MPa to 461 MPa, whereas the fracture toughness increased from 48 MPa√m to 63.5 MPa√m.
The highest fracture toughness of 63.5 MPa√m was seen after 5 h of retrogression.
The measured diameter of η' precipitates increased from 6.13 nm at the retrogression 1 h condition to 6.50 nm at the retrogression 5 h condition.
Prolonged retrogression also increased the chance of crack initiation, with slower crack growth rate in the long transverse direction compared to the longitudinal direction.
An empirical relationship was established between fracture toughness and the volume fraction of age-hardening precipitates, with increasing number density of precipitates seen with increasing retrogression time.
The macro-mesoscopic joint fatigue model containing hardening particles and crystal characteristics is established to study the effect of the hardening particles and the grain orientation on fatigue properties of an aluminum alloy friction stir welding (FSW) joint.
The macroscopic model is composed of the weld nugget zone, thermo-mechanically affected zone, heat-affected zone, and base material, according to the metallurgical morphology and hardness distribution of the joint.
Cyclic stress and strain data are used to determine the material properties.
The fatigue parameters used in the calculation of cyclic stresses and strains are obtained with the four-point correlation method.
The mesoscopic models of different zones are inserted into the joint macroscopic model as submodules.
The models containing the information of hardening particles and grain orientation are established with crystal plasticity theory for the grains and isotropic hardening rule for the hardening particles.
The effects of hardening particles and grain orientation on the stress and strain responses are discussed.
The simulation results show that high-angle misorientation of adjacent grains hinders the stress transfer.
The particle cluster or cracked particles intensify the stress and strain concentrations.
The main objective of this contribution was to determine the impact of magnesium (Mg) concentration and solidification rate (about 800 °C/s) on the mechanical properties of commercial A380.1 die-cast alloy.
Respective amounts of 0.10%, 0.30%, and 0.50% Mg were used to establish their influence on the main tensile properties, namely, the ultimate limit, the elastic limit, and the percentage of elongation to fracture.
The study also focused on the effect of magnesium on the fatigue behavior of A380.1 alloy where the role of surface defects and internal defects (porosity, oxide films, and inclusions) on the alloy fatigue life was also determined.
The tensile properties were analyzed in order to optimize the heat treatments of T6 (under-aging) and T7 (over-aging).
Consequently, the influence of several parameters was evaluated using tensile testing and optical and scanning electron micrography.
Fatigue strength was investigated by performing rotational bending tests.
The results show that the alloy tensile strength parameters improve with up to 0.3% Mg.
Further addition of Mg, i.e., 0.5%, does not produce any significant improvement with respect to either traction or fatigue.
It is observed that the tensile properties fluctuate according to the Guinier-Preston zones which occur during heat treatment, while the fatigue properties decrease as the Mg content increases.
In contrast to a mechanical fatigue failure mechanism, in the present study, cracks were initiated at the sample's outer surface and then propagated toward the center.
Solder joints are subjected to varied stress cycle circumstances in the electronic packaging service life but are also influenced by aging.
There has been limited investigation into the influence of aging and varying cycles on SnAgCu-Bi (SAC-Bi) solder joint fatigue.
Cyclic fatigue tests were performed on solder joints of several alloys, including SnAgCu (SAC305), SnAgCu-Bi (SAC-Q), and SnCu-Bi (SAC-R).
Individual solder joints were cycled under varying stress levels, alternating between mild and harsh stress levels.
At least seven samples were prepared for each alloy by alternating between 25 mild stress (MS) cycles and three harsh stress (HS) cycles until the solder joint broke off.
The impact of aging on Bi-doped solder joints fatigue under varied amplitude stress was examined and predicted for 10 and 1000 h under 125 °C.
Because of the "Step-up" phenomenon of inelastic work, a new fatigue model was developed based on the common damage accumulation (CDA) model.
The experimental results revealed that aging reduced the fatigue life of the tested solder alloys, particularly that of SAC305.
According to the CDA model, all solder alloys failed earlier than expected after aging.
The proposed model uses the amplification factor to assess inelastic work amplification after switching between the MS and HS cycles under varying stress amplitude conditions.
The amplification factor for the SAC-Bi solder alloys increased linearly with fracture initiation and substantially followed crack propagation until the final failure.
Compared with existing damage accumulation models, the proposed fatigue model provides a more accurate estimation of damage accumulation.
For each case, the cut-off positions were examined.
The SAC-Q amplification factor increased linearly to 83% of its overall life, which was much higher than that of SAC305 and SAC-R.
This study identified three distinct failure modes: ductile, brittle, and near intermetallic compound (IMC) failure.
It was also observed that SAC-Q with an organic solderability preservatives (OSP) surface finish was more susceptible to brittle failure owing to the excessive brittleness of the alloy material.
PM 2000 is a Ni-free oxide dispersion strengthened Fe-20Cr-5Al alloy able to develop a fine, dense and tightly adherent alpha-alumina scale during high-temperature oxidation.
Despite the high temperature involved during thermal oxidation (1100 degrees C), microstructural changes in the candidate material, a hot rolled product, hardly occurs.
Consequently, the good mechanical properties of the as-received material are not significantly affected.
Moreover, due to the high compressive residual stresses at the alumina scale, an increase in the fatigue limit from 500 to 530 MPa is observed.
Such stresses also account for the high capability of the coating/metal system to withstand more than 1% tensile deformation without cracking.
The biocompatibility of the alloy was assessed in comparison to commercial alumina.
Saos-2 osteoblast-like cells were either challenged with PM 2000 particles, or seeded onto PM 2000 (with and without scale) solid samples.
Viability, growth, and ALP release from cells were assessed after 3 or 7 days, while mineralization was checked at 18 days.
This study has demonstrated that PM 2000 with and without scale are capable of supporting in vitro growth and function of osteoblast-like cells over a period of 18 days.
Results from this study suggest that the resulting alumina/alloy system combines the good mechanical properties of the alloy with the superior biocompatibility of the alpha-alumina, for which there is very good clinical experience.
Single-crystal aluminas are being considered for use in the manufacture of prosthetic heart valves.
To characterize such materials for biomedical application, subcritical crack growth by stress corrosion (static fatigue) and by cyclic fatigue has been examined in sapphire along (1100) planes in 24 degrees C humid air and 37 degrees C Ringer's solution (the latter as a simulated physiological environment).
The relationships between crack-propagation rates and the linear-elastic stress intensity have been determined for the first time in sapphire for both modes of subcritical cracking.
It was found that growth rates were significantly faster at a given stress intensity in the Ringer's solution compared to the humid air environment.
Mechanistically, a true cyclic fatigue effect was not found in sapphire as experimentally measured cyclic fatigue-crack growth rates could be closely predicted simply by integrating the static fatigue-crack growth data over the cyclic loading cycle.
The objective of this study was to test the following hypotheses: (1) both cyclic degradation and stress-corrosion mechanisms result in subcritical crack growth (SCG) in a fluorapatite glass-ceramic (IPS e.max ZirPress, Ivoclar-Vivadent) and (2) there is an interactive effect of stress corrosion and cyclic fatigue to accelerate subcritical crack growth.
Rectangular beam specimens were fabricated using the lost-wax process.
Two groups of specimens (N=30/group) with polished (15μm) or air-abraded surface were tested under rapid monotonic loading.
Additional polished specimens were subjected to cyclic loading at two frequencies, 2Hz (N=44) and 10Hz (N=36), and at various stress amplitudes.
All tests were performed using a fully articulated four-point flexure fixture in deionized water at 37°C.
The SCG parameters were determined using the ratio of inert strength Weibull modulus to lifetime Weibull modulus.
A general log-linear model was fit to the fatigue lifetime data including time to failure, frequency, peak stress, and the product of frequency and logarithm of stress in ALTA PRO software.
SCG parameters determined were n=21.7 and A=4.99×10(-5) for 2Hz, and n=19.1 and A=7.39×10(-6) for 10Hz.
After fitting the general log-linear model to cyclic fatigue data, the coefficients of the frequency term (α1), the stress term (α2), and the interaction term (α3) had estimates and 95% confidence intervals of α1=-3.16 (-15.1, 6.30), α2=-21.2 (-34.9, -9.73), and α3=0.820 (-1.59, 4.02).
Only α2 was significantly different from zero.
(1) Cyclic fatigue does not have a significant effect on SCG in the fluorapatite glass-ceramic evaluated and (2) there was no interactive effect between cyclic degradation and stress corrosion for this material.
The thread connection's root fillet radius of 0.038″ size is the greatest weakness of the API NC type joints and thread.
During the slimehole drilling, especially in the deep and ultra-deep gas well, its stress concentration factor and notch sensitivity factor are very high A novel thread connection design (TM) of a drilling tool is proposed to decrease the fatigue failure of the slimehole drilling tool in the deep and the ultra-deep gas well in the Tarim oilfield China.
The novelty in the TM thread structure is, reducing the threads per inch, extending the distance from the last engaged thread to the external shoulder of the pin and adding three threads to the conventional connection.
The novel thread connection will improve the slimehole drilling tool's anti-fatigue life due to its improved elasticity and rigidity.
Furthermore, the TM can transfer the maximum stress at the connection root to the loaded surface, which can effectively lower the fatigue notch's sensitivity coefficient.
In this paper, the finite element method (FEM) is applied to carry out the detailed comparative analysis of the TM with existing thread connection NC38, TX60 and TH90.
The TM has the lowest stress concentration factor and fatigue notch sensitivity coefficient, so its anti-fatigue life is the highest.
In addition, TM is manufactured and is tested at Tarim oilfield in China.
Effects of the stress ratio on the very high cycle fatigue behaviors of 9%Cr turbine steel have been investigated at 630 °C.
The experimental results show that the S-N curve has a continuous downward trend and has no fatigue limit with the increasing in the cycles at 630 °C.
Meanwhile, according to the analysis of microstructure, there are two failure modes that were observed at different stress ratios (R = -1 and 0.1), including surface crack failure and internal crack failure, respectively.
Besides, the theoretical threshold value of the crack growth is compared with the calculated value of the fracture surface.
To decrease the difference between the threshold value of internal crack initiation and the corresponding theoretical value, a new model for the crack growth threshold of the interior-induced fracture at different stress ratios is proposed and discussed.
The inherent anisotropy of composites complicates their damage response.
The influence of multiaxiality, particularly in carbon-based composites, is not thoroughly understood due to obstacles related to damage monitoring during loading.
In this study, the response of different carbon/epoxy laminates under fatigue is examined through dedicated in situ microscopic observations.
By varying the orientation of off-axis layers, the impact of multiaxiality on the mechanical and damage response is evaluated.
Furthermore, balanced and unbalanced laminates are compared, considering the limited information for the latter.
The influence of the number of off-axis layers is finally assessed leading to important conclusions about optimal fatigue response.
The fatigue response is evaluated in all cases considering both the mechanical properties and the damage characteristics.
Significant conclusions are drawn, especially for the benefits of unbalanced laminates and the impact of shear stresses, allowing for the utilization of the obtained data as important input for the establishment of reliable fatigue damage models.
In the Al alloy A2024-T3 extruded material, a rod-like structure is generated parallel to the extrusion direction.
In this study, the effects of rod-like structures on fatigue crack initiation and growth behavior were comprehensively investigated.
Two types of specimens were used in a fatigue experiment, in which the direction of the load stress amplitude was parallel (specimen P) and perpendicular (specimen V) to the rod-like structure.
Based on the experimental and analytical results, the following findings were obtained regarding the fatigue life, location of crack initiation, and fatigue crack growth behavior.
Because the fatigue life of specimen P was longer than that of specimen V, it is inferred that the rod-like structure significantly affects the fatigue life.
In specimen P, fatigue cracks were generated from the grain boundaries of the Al matrix.
By contrast, in specimen V, cracks were generated from the Cu-Mg-based intermetallic compound in the Al matrix.
In specimen P, fatigue cracks were more likely to propagate across the rod-like structure, which decreased the fatigue crack growth rate.
In specimen V, fatigue cracks did not propagate across the rod-like structure; instead, they propagated through the Al matrix.
Therefore, the fatigue crack growth resistance of specimen V was lower than that of specimen P.
The relationship between the fatigue crack growth rate and the modified linear elastic fracture mechanics parameter could be used to predict the S-N curve (stress amplitude vs. fatigue life) and fatigue crack growth behavior.
The predicted results agreed well with the experimental results.
Metallic shear panel dampers (SPDs) have been widely adopted in seismic engineering.
In this study, axial and torsional specimens of four types of metallic damping materials, including three conventional metallic steels as well as low yield strength steel 160 (LYS160), were tested in order to investigate the material response under repeated large plastic strain and low cycle fatigue between 10 and 30 cycles.
The present study demonstrated that both the deformation capacity and fatigue performance of LYS160 were underestimated by the conversion from the traditional uniaxial tensile test.
The main difference in the failure mechanism between LYS160 and the three conventional materials was determined from the scanning electron microscopy data.
The dominant failure mode in LYS160 is stable interlaminate slip and not bucking.
Our results provide physical insights into the origin of the large deformation capacity, which is an important foundation for the lightweight design of SPDs.
Laser powder bed fusion (L-PBF) is an additive manufacturing technique that enables the fabrication of complex geometries through a layer-by-layer approach, overcoming limitations of conventional manufacturing.
In this study, multiaxial low-cycle fatigue (MLCF) tests were conducted on L-PBF Ti-6Al-4V (Ti64) specimens built in four different orientations, selected based on critical plane orientations identified from rolled titanium.
Under proportional strain-controlled loading, the cyclic softening behavior, mean stress response, and fracture mechanisms of the material were systematically investigated.
The results show that L-PBF Ti64 exhibits a three-stage softening characteristic (continuous softening, stable, and rapid softening).
Fatigue cracks primarily initiate from inner-surface lack-of-fusion defects.
Crack propagation shows cleavage and quasi-cleavage characteristics with tearing ridges, river patterns, and multi-directional striations.
Proposed KBMP life prediction model, incorporating λ and building direction parameters, was developed.
The KBMP-λ model demonstrates optimal accuracy, providing a reliable tool for the design of L-PBF titanium components subjected to complex multiaxial fatigue loading with relative errors within 20%.
Several studies (Sherrill and O'Brien, 1974; Southan and Jørgensen, 1974; Jones, 1983) have shown that stress corrosion fatigue occurs in dental porcelains.
Morena et al. (1986) reported on an assessment of slow crack growth parameters for dental ceramics.
The purpose of the study reported here was to evaluate the fatigue parameters of a model experimental porcelain using dynamic fatigue testing.
This test procedure makes use of several constant stressing rates to perform strength tests.
Dynamic stress testing was first described by Evans (1974) and later defined as a distinct test modality by Ritter (1978).
From such data, the fatigue parameters can be calculated.
These fatigue parameters, n and sigma f0, are, respectively, the crack growth exponent from the crack velocity expression and a materials constant which is dependent on the test environment and the inert (moisture-free) strength.
The model porcelain was made from 60% component 1 and 40% component 3 according to the Weinstein patent (Weinstein, et al., 1962).
The biaxial flexure strength of 300 specimens 1 mm thick was tested in 37 degrees C water by testing 50 samples at each of 6 constant stressing rates: 100, 10, 1, 0.1, 0.01, and 0.001 MPa/s.
One hundred specimens were tested in a moisture-free environment at 100 MPa/s using a servo-mechanical testing machine.
A commercial porcelain (Jelenko Gingival-Lot # 2012, Jelenko Dental Health Products, Armonk, NY, USA) was chosen as a reference material. One hundred twenty specimens were tested using the same procedures as those used for the model porcelain; however, only 20 samples were tested for 5 stressing rate groups and an inert group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ongoing studies of the influence of internal defects on fatigue strength of additively manufactured metals adopted an internal crack or notch-like model at which the threshold stress intensity factor is the driving mechanism of fatigue failure.
The current article highlights a shortcoming of this approach and offers an alternative based on X-ray microcomputed tomography and cyclic plasticity with a hybrid formulation of Chaboche and Armstrong-Frederick material laws.
The presented tessellation and geometrical transformation scheme enabled a significantly more realistic morphological representation of internal defects that yielded a cyclic strain within 2% of the experimental values.
This means that cyclic plasticity models have an accurate prediction of mechanical properties without repeating a full set of experiments for additively manufactured arbitrary microstructures.
The coupling with a material law that is oriented towards the treatment of cyclic hardening and softening enabled more accurate computation of internal stresses under cyclic loading than ever before owing to the maturity of tessellation and numerical tools since then.
The resulting stress-strain distributions were used as input to the Fatemi-Socie damage model, based on which a successful calculation of fatigue lifetime became possible.
Furthermore, acting stresses on the internal pores were shown to be more than 450% concerning the applied remote stress amplitude.
The results are a pretext to a scale bridging numerical solution that accounts for the short crack formation stage based on microstructural damage.
The majority of cemented femoral hip replacements fail as a consequence of loosening.
One design feature that may affect loosening rates is implant surface finish.
To determine whether or not surface finish effects fatigue damage accumulation in a bone cement mantle, we developed an experimental model of the implanted proximal femur that allows visualisation of damage growth in the cement layer.
Five matte surface and five polished surface stems were tested.
Pre-load damage and damage after two million cycles was measured.
Levels of pre-load (shrinkage) damage were the same for both matte and polished stems; furthermore damage for matte vs. polished stems was not significantly different after two million cycles.
This was due to the large variability in damage accumulation rates.
Finite element analysis showed that the stress is higher for the polished (assumed debonded) stem, and therefore we must conclude that either the magnitude of the stress increase is not enough to appreciably increase the damage accumulation rate or, alternatively, the polished stem does not debond immediately from the cement.
Significantly (P=0.05) more damage was initiated in the lateral cement compared to the medial cement for both kinds of surface finish.
It was concluded that, despite the higher cement stresses with debonded stems, polished prostheses do not provoke the damage accumulation failure scenario.
This paper investigates the fatigue damage and cracking behavior of aluminum alloy 2024-T4 with different levels of prior corrosion.
Damage evolution, crack initiation and propagation were experimentally analyzed by digital image correlation, scanning electron microscopy and damage curves.
Prior corrosion is shown to cause accelerated damage accumulation, inducing premature fatigue crack initiation, and affecting crack nucleation location, crack orientation and fracture path.
For the pre-corrosion condition, although multiple cracks were observed, only one corrosion-initiated primary crack dominates the failure process, in contrast to the plain fatigue cases, where multiple cracks propagated simultaneously leading to final coalescence and fracture.
Based on the experimental observations, a mixed-mode fracture model is proposed and shown to successfully predict fatigue crack growth and failure from the single dominant localized corrosion region.
The effect of heat treatment on tensile and low cycle fatigue properties of the oxygen-free copper for electric power equipment was investigated.
The heat treatment at 850 °C for 20 min, which corresponds to the vacuum brazing process, caused the grain growth and relaxation of strain by recrystallization, and thus, the residual stress in the oxygen-free copper was reduced.
The tensile strength and 0.2% proof stress were decreased, and elongation was increased by the heat treatment accompanying recrystallization.
The plastic strain in the heat-treated specimen was increased compared with that in the untreated specimen under the same stress amplitude condition, and thus, the low cycle fatigue life of the oxygen-free copper was degraded by the heat treatment.
Striation was observed in the crack initiation area of the fractured surface in the case of the stress amplitude less than 100 MPa regardless of the presence of the heat treatment.
With an increase in the stress amplitude, the river pattern and the quasicleavage fracture were mainly observed in the fracture surfaces of the untreated specimens, and they were observed with striations in the fracture surfaces of the heat-treated ones.
The result of the electron backscattered diffraction (EBSD) analysis showed that the grain reference orientation deviation (GROD) map was confirmed to be effective to investigate the fatigue damage degree in the grain by low cycle fatigue.
In addition, the EBSD analysis revealed that the grains were deformed, and the GROD value reached approximately 28° in the fractured areas of heat-treated specimens after the low cycle fatigue test.
Mitral valve prolapse is often caused by either elongated or ruptured chordae tendineae (CT).
In many cases, rupture is spontaneous, meaning there is no underlying cause.
We hypothesised that spontaneous rupture may be due to mechanical fatigue.
To investigate this hypothesis, we tested porcine marginal CT: in uniaxial tension, and in fatigue at a range of peak stresses (n=12 at 15, 10 and 7.5MPa respectively, n=6 at 5MPa).
The rupture surfaces of failed CT were observed histologically, under polarised light microscopy, and SEM.
The cycles to failure for 15, 10, 7.5 and 5 MPa peak stresses were: (average±SD): 5077±4366, 49513±56414, 99927±108908, 197099±69103.
A Weibull plot was constructed and from this, the number of cycles at 50% probability of failure was established in order to approximate the fatigue life, which was found to be 2.43MPa at 10 million cycles.
The rate of creep increases exponentially with increasing peak stress.
Under histological examination it was observed that CT which have been fatigued at low stress partially lose their organised collagen structure and can sustain micro-cracks that can be linked to increases in the creep rate.
Furthermore our SEM images closely matched descriptions from the literature of spontaneous in vivo rupture.
In conclusion, we believe that the mechanical test results we present strongly suggest that spontaneous chordal rupture and chordal elongation in vivo can be caused by mechanical fatigue.
Fiber reinforced composites are widely used in the production of parts for load bearing structures.
It is generally recognized that composites can be affected both by monotonic and cyclic loading.
For assembly purposes, drilling is needed, but holes can act as stress concentration notches, leading to damage propagation and failure.
In this work, a batch of carbon/epoxy plates is drilled by different drill geometries, while thrust force is monitored and the hole's surrounding region is inspected.
Based on radiographic images, the area and other features of the damaged region are computed for damage assessment.
Finally, the specimens are subjected to Bearing Fatigue tests.
Cyclic loading causes ovality of the holes and the loss of nearly 10% of the bearing net strength.
These results can help to establish an association between the damaged region and the material's fatigue resistance, as larger damage extension and deformation by cyclic stress contribute to the loss of load carrying capacity of parts.
The mechanical behaviour of carbon-black (CB)-filled rubber is temperature-dependent.
It is assumed that temperature affects the fatigue life of rubber products by changing the tear energy of the material. The static tearing behaviour and fatigue crack propagation behavior of CB-filled rubber at different temperatures were investigated in this study.
The critical tear energy of the material was measured through static tear fracture tests at different temperatures; it is shown that the critical tear energy decreases exponentially with increasing temperature.
A fatigue crack growth test of a constrained precracked planar tension specimen was conducted at room temperature; the measurements verify that the fatigue crack growth follows a Paris-Erdogan power law.
Considering the temperature dependence of the critical tear energy, the temperature dependent fatigue crack growth kinetics of CB-filled rubber was established, and the fatigue life of the material at high temperatures was predicted based on the kinetics.
The predictions are in good agreement with experimental measurements.
Mechanical factors have long been implicated in the aetiology of osteoarthritis (OA).
The two most popular hypotheses regarding the mechanism of cartilage damage are: the application of too high a stress and the mechanism of fatigue.
Mechanical failure in any material, however, can be caused by either or both of these mechanisms.
It is hypothesized that, because cartilage is a living tissue, the threshold at which it fails by either mechanism is regulated by the prevalent stresses arising in a joint.
As these stresses are determined by activities and lifestyles, a low failure threshold can be the result of prolonged periods of low-level activity, which, if interrupted with short periods of intense activities, can subject weakened cartilage to damaging stresses.
Were this hypothesis proven, it would address difficulties encountered with these hypotheses and explain some clinical observations.
It would also have implications for the activities and lifestyles of individuals.
Ligaments can be subjected to creep and fatigue damage when loaded to higher than normal stresses due to injury of a complementary joint restraint.
Continuum damage mechanics (CDM) assumes that diffuse damage accumulates in a material, thereby reducing the effective cross-sectional area and leading to eventual rupture.
The objective of this study was to apply CDM modelling to ligament creep and fatigue to reveal mechanisms of damage.
Fatigue was modelled by cyclically varying the stress in the creep model.
A few novel approaches were used.
First, area reduction was not assumed equal to modulus reduction; thus, allowing damaged fibres to potentially contribute to load-bearing through the extracellular matrix.
Modulus ratio was related to area reduction using residual strength.
Second, damage rate was not assumed constant but rather was determined directly from the modulus ratio change with respect to time.
Third, modulus ratio was normalized to maximum modulus to avoid artificial calculation of negative damage.
With this approach, the creep time-to-rupture was predicted with -4% error at 60% UTS and -13% error at 30% UTS.
At 15% UTS, no test was undertaken experimentally for a duration as long as the 24 days predicted theoretically.
Oscillating the time-dependent damage in the creep model could not completely explain the fatigue behaviour because the fatigue time-to-rupture was predicted with over 1300% error at all stresses.
These results suggest that a cycle-dependent damage mechanism, in addition to a time-dependent one, was responsible for fatigue rupture.
Cycle-dependent damage may be an important consideration for rehabilitation activities following injury of a complementary ligament restraint.
Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) drinking bottles, rubber tires, and concrete are the very common municipal solid wastes, which are usually disposed of at landfills and stockpiles and cause continuous damage to the environment.
Some studies have indicated that waste PET can be chemically converted into an additive for improving the overall properties of asphalt pavement incorporating natural aggregates, especially the moisture-induced damage resistance.
However, it is not clear whether this PET additive still works for asphalt rubber containing recycled concrete aggregates (RCA).
To well reveal this issue, this study first adopted a similar way to chemically recycle waste PET into the additive for modifying crumb rubber modified asphalt (CRMA) binder and then mixed the binder with the 13 mm maximum aggregate stone matrix asphalt containing 100% coarse RCA for preparing the mixtures.
After a series of physicochemical characterizations of the PET additive, the moisture resistance, rutting resistance, low-temperature cracking resistance, and fatigue resistance of the mixture were systematically evaluated.
The results showed that the PET additive is capable of improving the resistance to moisture and high-temperature deformation of asphalt rubber and helps greatly reduce the moisture-induced damage to the interfacial bonding layer.
To be more detailed, the residual Marshall stability (RMS) value of RCA-CRMAM/1PET after 72 h of immersion is higher than 85% by contrast to that of RCA-CRMAM (77.1%), while the tensile strength ratio (TSR) value of RCA-CRMAM/1PET shows more than 80% compared to that of 65.2%.
In addition, only 1% PET additive can enhance the high-temperature resistance of asphalt rubber containing RCA to rut and allow it to maintain higher resistance to rut after moisture-induced damage. 1% PET additive can help improve the bearing capacity of RCA-CRMAM under a low-temperature environment and delay its fatigue life at small stresses.
Generally, with the successful introduction of PET additives to asphalt rubber containing RCA, more durable and sustainable highway pavement can be produced and applied in practice to alleviate the negative impacts caused by waste PET, waste tire rubber, and waste concrete.
Aircraft structures are highly susceptible to fatigue damage, particularly in thin-walled aluminum alloy components such as skin panels.
Damage in the form of holes or material loss drastically reduces fatigue life and compromises structural safety, which makes effective repair strategies essential. This study presents an experimental investigation into the fatigue performance of EN AW-2024-T3 aluminum alloy plates with central openings subjected to uniform shear.
Repair nodes were applied using two approaches: conventional riveted metal patches and adhesively bonded composite patches.
Variants of patch geometry, thickness, and diameter were evaluated to determine their influence on load transfer, buckling response, and fatigue life.
The results show that central holes significantly shorten fatigue life, with a 20 mm hole causing a 67% reduction and a 50 mm hole causing a 95% reduction when compared with undamaged plates.
Riveted metal patches restored only part of the lost performance, as stress concentrators introduced by fastener holes initiated new fatigue cracks.
In contrast, adhesively bonded composite patches provided a substantial improvement, extending fatigue life beyond that of the riveted solutions, improving buckling shape, and delaying crack initiation.
Larger patches, particularly those combined with metallic inserts, proved most effective in restoring structural functionality.
The findings confirm the effectiveness of bonded composite repairs as a lightweight and reliable method for extending fatigue life and enhancing the safety of damaged aircraft structures.
The study highlights the importance of patch geometry and stiffness in the design of repair nodes.
This paper presents the experimental results of composite rebars based on GFRP manufactured by a pultrusion system.
The bending and radial compression strength of rods was determined.
The elastic modulus of GFRP rebars is significantly lower than for steel rebars, while the static flexural properties are higher.
The microstructure of the selected rebars was studied and discussed in light of the obtained results-failure processes such as the delamination and fibers fracture can be observed.
The bending fatigue test was performed under a constant load amplitude sinusoidal waveform.
All rebars were subjected to fatigue tests under the R = 0.1 condition.
As a result, the S-N curve was obtained, and basic fatigue characteristics were determined.
The fatigue mechanism of bar failure under bending was further analyzed using SEM microscopy.
It is worth noting that the failure and fracture mechanism plays a crucial role as a material quality indicator in the manufacturing process.
The main mechanism of failure under static and cyclic loading during the bending test is widely discussed in this paper.
The results obtained from fatigue tests encourage further analysis.
The diametral compression test reflects the weakest nature of the composite materials based on the interlaminar compressive strength.
The proposed methodology allows us to invariantly describe the experimental transversal strength of the composite materials.
Considering the expected durability of the structure, the failure mechanism is likely to significantly improve their fatigue behavior under the influence of cyclic bending.
The reasonable direction of searching for reinforcements of composite structures should be the improvement of the bearing capacity of the outer layers.
In comparison with steel rebars (fatigue tensile test), the obtained results for GFRP are comparable in the HCF regime.
It is worth noting that in the near fatigue endurance regime (2-5 × 10
Engineered hydrogels with excellent mechanical properties and multi-functionality have great potential as soft electronic skins, tissue substitutes and flexible robotic joints.
However, it has been a challenge to construct multifunctional hydrogels, especially when integrating high stretchability, toughness and strength, low hysteresis, good self-healing and adhesion abilities into a hydrogel system simultaneously.
Here, we successfully developed a structural hydrogel composed of a reversible covalently cross-link-based poly-
The present paper is dedicated to the theoretical evaluation of a loading feature, that may have a significant influence on fatigue phenomenon: non-proportionality.
As a matter of fact, considerable interactions between dislocations, leading to the formation of dislocation cells, cause additional cyclic hardening of material. Such a phenomenon is experimentally observed for materials sensitive to non-proportionality.
In such a context, the present paper is aimed to propose a novel multiaxial strain-based criterion, the refined equivalent deformation (RED) criterion, which allows to take into account, in fatigue life estimation, both strain amplitude and additional cyclic hardening.
The accuracy of the novel criterion is evaluated by considering experimental tests, performed on Ti-6Al-4V specimens, subjected to multiaxial LCF loading.
Ligaments are regularly subjected to repetitive loading in vivo.
Typically, mechanical studies focus on repetitive loading protocols of short duration, while those characterizing damage accumulation over a longer duration (i.e., fatigue studies) are lacking.
The aims of this study were as follows: (a) to demonstrate that damage does accumulate in ligament tissue subjected to repetitive loading and (b) to evaluate existing and new methods for characterizing fatigue damage accumulation.
It was hypothesized that ligaments would accumulate damage with repetitive loading as evidenced by failure at stresses well below ultimate tensile strength, creep curve discontinuities, and by reductions in stiffness during loading.
Eight normal medial collateral ligaments from female New Zealand white rabbits were cycled in tension, between 0 MPa and 28 MPa, to failure or until 259,200 cycles, whichever came first.
Medial collateral ligaments that did not fail were subsequently loaded to failure.
Displacement rates (dl(max)/dt) as well as primary, secondary, and tertiary creeps were monitored as indices of damage accumulation and impending mechanical failure.
Additionally, the relative utilities of tangent, secant, and chord stiffness parameters were critically evaluated.
Finally, new uses for the second derivative of force-displacement data were explored.
Three out of eight ligaments failed during testing, demonstrating that ligaments can fail in fatigue under moderate tensile stress in vitro.
The evaluation of displacement rates (dl(max)/dt), as well as primary through tertiary creep patterns, were not well suited to predicting failure in normal ligaments until rupture was all but imminent.
Tangent stiffness, which was calculated from a mathematically defined start of the "linear region," was surprisingly constant throughout testing.
Secant stiffness dropped in a predictable fashion, providing a global indicator of tissue stiffness, but did not provide any insight into fiber mechanics.
Chord stiffness, on the other hand, appeared to be sensitive to fiber recruitment patterns.
The second derivative of force-displacement data proved to be a useful means of (a) objectively defining the start of the linear region and (b) inferring changes in fiber recruitment patterns within ligament tissue.
Tangent, secant, and chord stiffnesses highlight different attributes of ligament responses to loading; hence these parameters cannot be used interchangeably.
Additionally, the second derivative of the force-displacement curve was introduced as a useful descriptive and analytical tool.
Denosumab has been shown to increase bone mineral density (BMD) and reduce the fracture risk in patients with post-menopausal osteoporosis (PMO).
Increase in BMD is linked with an increase in bone matrix mineralisation due to suppression of bone remodelling.
However, denosumab anti-resorptive action also leads to an increase in fatigue microdamage, which may ultimately lead to an increased fracture risk.
A novel mechanobiological model of bone remodelling was developed to investigate how these counter-acting mechanisms are affected both by exercise and long-term denosumab treatment.
This model incorporates Frost's mechanostat feedback, a bone mineralisation algorithm and an evolution law for microdamage accumulation.
Mechanical disuse and microdamage were assumed to stimulate RANKL production, which modulates activation frequency of basic multicellular units in bone remodelling.
This mechanical feedback mechanism controls removal of excess bone mass and microdamage.
Furthermore, a novel measure of bone local failure due to instantaneous overloading was developed.
Numerical simulations indicate that trabecular bone volume fraction and bone matrix damage are determined by the respective bone turnover and homeostatic loading conditions.
PMO patients treated with the currently WHO-approved dose of denosumab (60 mg administrated every 6 months) exhibit increased BMD, increased bone ash fraction and damage.
In untreated patients, BMD will significantly decrease, as will ash fraction; while damage will increase.
The model predicted that, depending on the time elapsed between the onset of PMO and the beginning of treatment, BMD slowly converges to the same steady-state value, while damage is low in patients treated soon after the onset of the disease and high in patients having PMO for a longer period.
The simulations show that late treatment PMO patients have a significantly higher risk of local failure compared to patients that are treated soon after the onset of the disease.
Furthermore, overloading resulted in an increase of BMD, but also in a faster increase of damage, which may consequently promote the risk of fracture, specially in late treatment scenarios.
In case of mechanical disuse, the model predicted reduced BMD gains due to denosumab, while no significant change in damage occurred, thus leading to an increased risk of local failure compared to habitual loading.
Modelling of crack tip behaviour was carried out for a nickel-based superalloy subjected to high temperature fatigue in a vacuum and air.
In a vacuum, crack growth was entirely due to mechanical deformation and thus it was sufficient to use accumulated plastic strain as a criterion.
To study the strong effect of oxidation in air, a diffusion-based approach was applied to investigate the full interaction between fatigue and oxygen penetration at a crack tip.
Penetration of oxygen into the crack tip induced a local compressive stress due to dilatation effect.
An increase in stress intensity factor range or dwell times imposed at peak loads resulted in enhanced accumulation of oxygen at the crack tip.
A crack growth criterion based on accumulated levels of oxygen and plastic strain at the crack tip was subsequently developed to predict the crack growth rate under fatigue-oxidation conditions.
The predicted crack-growth behaviour compared well with experimental results.
Microdamage accumulation leads to subchondral bone injury and/or fracture in racehorses.
An understanding of this process is essential for developing strategies for injury prevention.
To quantify subchondral bone microdamage in the third metacarpal bone of Thoroughbred racehorses at different stages of the training cycle.
Cross-sectional. Bone blocks from the palmar aspect of the medial condyles of third metacarpal bones from 46 racing Thoroughbred horses undergoing post-mortem were examined with micro computed tomography (microCT) to detect calcified microcracks, and light microscopy to quantify bulk stained microcracks.
Racing and training histories were obtained for comparison with microdamage data using regression modelling.
Subchondral bone microcracks were observed in all bones with at least one method.
Microdamage grade was greater in older horses, levelling-off for horses 5 years and older (quadratic term P = 0.01), and with lower bone material density in the parasagittal groove (P = 0.02).
Microcrack density was higher in older horses (P = 0.004), and with higher bone volume fraction (BV/TV) in the parasagittal groove in horses in training (interaction effect, P = 0.01) and lower in horses resting from training (P = 0.02).
Incomplete detection of microdamage due to the limits of resolution of microCT and lack of three-dimensional imaging with microscopy.
Multicollinearity between variables that indicated career progression (e.g. age, number of career starts, duration of training period) was detected.
Fatigue damage in the distal metacarpal subchondral bone is common in Thoroughbred racehorses undergoing post-mortem and appears to accumulate throughout a racing career.
Reduced intensity or duration of training and racing and/or increased duration of rest periods may limit microdamage accumulation.
Focal subchondral bone sclerosis indicates the presence of microdamage.
Residual compressive stress can improve fretting fatigue strength.
In this paper, the effects of residual stress on fretting fatigue of Al 2024-T351 alloy specimens are studied using a numerical approach.
The extended finite element method combined with the cyclic cohesive zone model is adopted to model fretting fatigue crack growth behavior.
It is shown that residual stress changes the fretting fatigue crack growth path and enhances fretting fatigue life.
Crack initiation angle, depth of knee point, crack initiation life, crack propagation life and total life are greater for specimens with residual stress compared to specimens without residual stress.
The effects of residual stress are more remarkable for specimens with a high intensity of residual stress.
However, the effects of residual stress reduce at a high bulk load level.
Seaweeds inhabiting the extreme hydrodynamic environment of wave-swept shores break frequently.
However, traditional biomechanical analyses, evaluating breakage due to the largest individual waves, have perennially underestimated rates of macroalgal breakage.
Recent laboratory testing has established that some seaweeds fail by fatigue, accumulating damage over a series of force impositions.
Failure by fatigue may thus account, in part, for the discrepancy between prior breakage predictions, based on individual not repeated wave forces, and reality.
Nonetheless, the degree to which fatigue breaks seaweeds on wave-swept shores remains unknown.
Here, we developed a model of fatigue breakage due to wave-induced forces for the macroalga Mazzaella flaccida.
To test model performance, we made extensive measurements of M. flaccida breakage and of wave-induced velocities experienced by the macroalga.
The fatigue-breakage model accounted for significantly more breakage than traditional prediction methods.
For life history phases modeled most accurately, 105% (for female gametophytes) and 79% (for tetrasporophytes) of field-observed breakage was predicted, on average.
When M. flaccida fronds displayed attributes such as temperature stress and substantial tattering, the fatigue-breakage model underestimated breakage, suggesting that these attributes weaken fronds and lead to more rapid breakage.
Exposure to waves had the greatest influence on model performance.
At the most wave-protected sites, the model underpredicted breakage, and at the most wave-exposed sites, it overpredicted breakage.
Overall, our fatigue-breakage model strongly suggests that, in addition to occurring predictably in the laboratory, fatigue-induced breakage of M. flaccida occurs on wave-swept shores.
The tibio-femoral contact area in five current popular total knee joint replacements has been measured using pressure-sensitive film under a normal load of 2.5 kN and at several angles of flexion.
The corresponding maximum contact pressure has been estimated from the measured contact areas and found to exceed the point at which plastic deformation is expected in the ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) component, particularly at flexion angles near 90 degrees.
The measured contact area and the estimated maximum contact stress have been found to be similar in magnitude for all of the five knee joint replacements tested.
A significant difference, however, has been found in maximum contact pressure predicted from linear elasticity analysis for the different knee joints.
This indicates that varying amounts of plastic deformation occurred in the polyethylene component in the different knee designs.
It is important to know the extent of damage as knees with large amounts of plastic deformation are more likely to suffer low cycle fatigue failure.
It is therefore concluded that the measurement of contact areas alone can be misleading in the design of and deformation in total knee joint replacements.
It is important to modify geometries to reduce the maximum contact stress as predicted from the linear elasticity analysis, to below the linear elastic limit of the plastic component.
The aim of this research is to investigate the sequence of processes for improving the welded surface integrity of AA7075-T651 aluminum alloy joined by friction stir welding (FSW).
The improvement processes that will be investigated herein include mechanical surface improvement with deep rolling (DR) and post-weld heat treatment (PWHT).
Therefore, this study investigated welded surface integrity, which comprises residual stress, microhardness, surface roughness, microstructure, and fatigue life (screening).
The experiment consists of three sets of combinations.
In the first set, only FSW was applied; in the second set, FSW was applied, followed by DR, and then PWHT processes (FSW-DR-PWHT); and in the last set, FSW was applied, followed by PWHT, and then DR processes (FSW-PWHT-DR).
Fatigue testing was carried out by undertaking a four-point bending test using a bending stress of approximately 300 MPa with a test frequency of 2.5 Hz at room temperature and stress ratio R = 0.
The study found that residual stress plays an important role in the fatigue life.
Finally, the fatigue test showed that FSW workpieces subject to the PWHT process followed by the DR process (FSW-PWHT-DR) had the highest fatigue life, with an increase of 239% when compared with unprocessed FSW workpieces.
This work presents an experimental methodology developed to perform fatigue crack growth (FCG) and slow strain rate (SSR) tests in ethanol environments aiming to evaluate stress corrosion cracking (SCC) susceptibility of circumferential welds on steel pipelines.
FCG and SSR specimens were machined from a welded pipe and the notches were properly designed to promote crack propagation in the different regions of the weld.
Tests were carried out keeping the crack-tip region fully immersed in an ethanol solution, which was fueled by a circulation system to ensure replenishment and aeration throughout the test.
When applied to a welded API X70 steel pipe, this experimental methodology proved to be an efficient and simple method to achieve relevant and important informations on environmentally assisted crack growth and SCC susceptibility.
The method developed here is inserted in the aspects as follows:•Perform tests in slow strain rate and cyclic bend loading in circulating ethanol, to promote the fracture in the different regions of a circumferential weld joint of a steel pipe.•Investigate sensitivity to stress corrosion cracking (SCC) of these different weld regions in ethanolic environment.•This method presents constructive details of a suitable apparatus which the experiments can be easily replicated.
Exposed root surfaces frequently exhibit non-carious notches representing material loss by abrasion, erosion, and/or abfraction.
Although a contribution from mechanical stress is often mentioned, no definitive proof exists of a cause-effect relationship.
To address this, we examined dimensional changes in dentin subjected to cyclic fatigue in two different pH environments.
Human dentin cantilever-beams were fatigued under load control in pH = 6 (n = 13) or pH = 7 (n = 13) buffer, with a load ratio (R = minimum load/maximum load) of 0.1 and frequency of 2 Hz, and stresses between 5.5 and 55 MPa. Material loss was measured at high- and low-stress locations before and after cycling.
Of the 23 beams, 7 withstood 1,000,000 cycles; others cracked earlier.
Mean material loss in high-stress areas was greater than in low-stress areas, and losses were greater at pH = 6 than at pH = 7, suggesting that mechanical stress and lower pH both accelerate erosion of dentin surfaces.
With high strength and good fatigue resistance, Al-Cu alloys such as AA2024 are widely used in the aerospace and automotive industries.
However, the system's susceptibility to hot cracking and other solidification defects hinders its development in metal additive manufacturing (AM).
A nano-treated AA2024 deposition, with the addition of TiC nanoparticles, is successfully additively manufactured without cracks.
Microstructural analysis suggests nanoparticles not only mitigate the hot cracking sensitivity but also significantly refine and homogenize grains, resulting in an average size of 23.2 ± 0.4 μm. Microhardness profiles show consistent mechanical performance along the build direction, regardless of cyclic thermal exposure.
Finally, excellent tensile strength and elongation up to 428 MPa and 7.4% were achieved after heat treatment.
The combined results show a great promise of nano-treating in high-strength aluminum AM.
A new model for studying the kinetics of fatigue wear of a viscoelastic coating bonded to a rigid substrate is proposed.
The fatigue mechanism is due to the cyclic interaction of the coating with a rough counterbody, which is modeled by a periodic system of smooth indenters.
The study includes the solution of the problem of sliding contact of the indenter at a constant velocity along the viscoelastic coating, the calculation of stresses taking into account the mutual effect, and study of the process of damage accumulation in the material. The calculation of the damage function of the surface layer was carried out using the reduced stress criterion.
Assuming the possibility of summation of accumulated damage, two processes were considered: delamination of surface layers of the coating and continuous fracture of the surface by the fatigue mechanism.
The effect of the sliding velocity and viscoelastic properties of the material on the damage accumulation and the coating wear rate was analyzed.
Two types of load, constant and stochastically varying, were used in modeling and analysis.
It was found that the rate of fatigue wear of the coating increased and then became constant.
This study experimentally and numerically investigated the nonlinear behavior of the resonant bulk waves generated by the two-way collinear mixing method in 5052 aluminum alloy with micro-crack damage.
When the primary longitudinal and transverse waves mixed in the micro-crack damage region, numerical and experimental results both verified the generation of resonant waves if the resonant condition ωL/ωT=2κ/(κ-1) was satisfied.
Meanwhile, we found that the acoustic nonlinearity parameter (ANP) increases monotonously with increases in micro-crack density, the size of the micro-crack region, the frequency of resonant waves and friction coefficient of micro-crack surfaces.
Furthermore, the micro-crack damage in a specimen generated by low-temperature fatigue experiment was employed.
It was found that the micro-crack damage region can be located by scanning the specimen based on the two-way collinear mixing method.
In this paper, an attempt is made to correlate the fatigue damage in 7000 aluminium alloys with different impurity contents to the microstructural features and to explain their interdependence through fractographic observations.
The Paris constants of these alloys in the form of hot-forged plates subjected to the overaged T73 temper are evaluated and differences in the fatigue crack growth rate described by striation spacing measurements.
Scanning electron microscopy analysis of fatigue fracture surfaces revealed that the type and morphological parameters of coarse intermetallic particles play a critical role in fatigue crack growth behaviour.
The elemental distribution determined by means of energy-dispersive spectroscopy analysis showed that the fractured particles accelerating the crack advances are larger particles of Fe-rich phases.
The fatigue crack growth rate increases considerably with increasing amounts of these particles.
The smaller eta, S and Mg(2)Si particles contribute beneficially to fatigue life.
This work evaluated the influence of the surface modification using acid etching combined with alkaline treatment on the fatigue strength of Ti-6Al-4V ELI alloy.
The topography developed by chemical surface treatments (CST) was examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM).
Increased roughness and effective surface area were investigated and compared with the Ti-6Al-4V samples without modification.
Surface composition was analyzed by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS).
Axial fatigue resistance of polished and modified surfaces was determined by stepwise load increase tests and staircase test method.
Light microscopy and SEM were employed to examine the fracture surface of the tested specimens.
According to the results, a similar fatigue behavior was found and a negligible difference in the fatigue crack nucleation was observed for the Ti-6Al-4V with CST in comparison to the samples without treatment.
The aim of this work is to conduct a literature review to highlight all the parameters involved in sub-prosthetic radicular fractures of teeth supported by metallic dental core.
The following research was performed among published studies over the last 10 years in two PubMed/Medline and Scopus and supplemented by manual searching within the bibliographies.
The search was restricted to publications in English and French.
Out of the 1464 articles initially identified, 18 studies met our inclusion criteria and were subsequently included in the literature review.
These consisted of eight Finite Element Analysis Studies, two Retrospective Studies and one Randomized Controlled Trial. The results of this review show that radicular fractures are influenced by several variables, including predisposition, with maxillary premolars and mandibular molars being the most commonly affected teeth.
Intracanal preparation can induce crack formation, leading to localized high stress concentrations.
Increased ferrule height to 2 mm significantly enhances dental fracture resistance.
Using high modulus of elasticity alloys results in nearly complete stress transmission to dentin due to their limited deformability and absorption capacity.
The highest fracture resistance is achieved when posts are sealed using resin-modified glass-ionomer cement.
Longer posts may be preferable to prevent vertical fractures.
Additionally, occlusal factors, through repetitive stresses, contribute to crack propagation from surface defects, a phenomenon termed fatigue fracture.
These findings have significant implications.
Practitioners should be aware of the predisposition of certain teeth, the importance of preserving the ferrule effect, the choice of root post materials, post Cement Material and the role of occlusal forces in managing and preventing vertical root fractures.
Stress fractures can occur because of prolonged exercise and are associated with cyclic loading.
Fatigue is the accumulated damage that results from cyclic loading and bone fatigue damage is of special concern for athletes and army recruits.
Existing literature shows that the rates of stress fracture for female athletes and female army recruits are higher than their male counterparts.
In this study, we used an ex vivo rat model to investigate the fatigue response of female and male bones.
We determined the strain versus number of cycles to failure (S/N) for each sex and found that for a certain initial strain (5,000-7,000 microepsilon) female bones have shorter fatigue life.
To further characterize the bone response to fatigue, we also determined the creep that occurred during the fatigue test.
From the creep data, for a certain strain range, female bones accumulated greater residual strains and reached the critical strain at a faster rate.
In summary, this study demonstrates that female rat bones have a lower resistance to fatigue in the absence of a physiological response such as muscle fatigue or osteogenic adaptation.
From these results, we hypothesized that creep was the underlying mechanism that accounted for the fast deterioration of female bones during fatigue.
The fatigue behavior of a cellular composite with an epoxy matrix and glass foam granules is analyzed and modeled by means of continuum damage mechanics.
The investigated cellular composite is a particular type of composite foam, and is very similar to syntactic foams.
In contrast to conventional syntactic foams constituted by hollow spherical particles (balloons), cellular glass, mineral, or metal place holders are combined with the matrix material (metal or polymer) in the case of cellular composites.
A microstructural investigation of the damage behavior is performed using scanning electron microscopy.
For the modeling of the fatigue behavior, the damage is separated into pure static and pure cyclic damage and described in terms of the stiffness loss of the material using damage models for cyclic and creep damage.
Both models incorporate nonlinear accumulation and interaction of damage.
A cycle jumping procedure is developed, which allows for a fast and accurate calculation of the damage evolution for constant load frequencies.
The damage model is applied to examine the mean stress effect for cyclic fatigue and to investigate the frequency effect and the influence of the signal form in the case of static and cyclic damage interaction.
The calculated lifetimes are in very good agreement with experimental results.
Bone serves as the reservoir of some minerals including calcium.
If calcium is needed anywhere in the body, it can be removed from the bone matrix by resorption and put back into the blood flow.
During bone remodelling the resorbed tissue is replaced by osteoid which gets mineralized very slowly.
Then, calcium homeostasis is controlled by bone remodelling, among other processes: the more intense is the remodelling activity, the lower is the mineral content of bone matrix.
Bone remodelling is initiated by the presence of microstructural damage.
Some experimental evidences show that the fatigue properties of bone are degraded and more microdamage is accumulated due to the external load as the mineral content increases.
That damage initiates bone remodelling and the mineral content is so reduced.
Therefore, this process prevents the mineral content of bone matrix to reach very high (non-physiological) values.
A bone remodelling model has been used to simulate this regulatory process.
In this model, damage is an initiation factor for bone remodelling and is estimated through a fatigue algorithm, depending on the macroscopic strain level.
Mineral content depends on bone remodelling and mineralization rate.
Finally, the bone fatigue properties are defined as dependent on the mineral content, closing the interconnection between damage and mineral content.
The remodelling model was applied to a simplified example consisting of a bar under tension with an initially heterogeneous mineral distribution.
Considering the fatigue properties as dependent on the mineral content, the mineral distribution tends to be homogeneous with an ash fraction within the physiological range.
If such dependance is not considered and fatigue properties are assumed constant, the homogenization is not always achieved and the mineral content may rise up to high non-physiological values.
Thus, the interconnection between mineral content and fatigue properties is essential for the maintenance of bone's structural integrity as well as for the calcium homeostasis.
The forged condition is the strongest form of the Co-Cr-Mo and Ti-6Al-4V alloys used in orthopaedics.
Both the Co-Cr-Mo alloy and the Ti-6Al-4V alloy lose strength when incorporated into porous implants.
The strength loss in the Co-Cr-Mo alloy is a generalized condition and is largely a result of the microstructure of these cast and then gravity-sintered prostheses.
The greatest fatigue strength achieved throughout these porous Co-Cr-Mo implants is that of the cast alloy.
The strength loss in diffusion-bonded, porous titanium-alloyed implants is largely a result of notch sensitivity.
This strength loss is not a generalized condition; it is localized on the implant to regions of porous coating attachment.
In implant regions apart from the porous coatings, these titanium implants can have the strength of other wrought or forged titanium alloy implants.
To achieve a functionally strong implant, porous implant design needs to account for these losses in material strength.
Implant strength should be verified experimentally and communicated to the orthopaedic surgeon for assessment of implant adequacy for a particular patient.
Patient weight, activity, and life expectancy are important elements in judging the adequacy of an implant's strength.
The present work focusses on the research of the plastic deformation accumulated effect obtained after two different plastic deformation treatments, over the fatigue life of AISI 304 austenitic stainless steel.
The research is focused on ball burnishing as a finishing process to form specific, so-called "regular micro-reliefs" (RMRs) on a pre-rolled stainless-steel sheet.
RMRs are formed using a CNC (Computerized Numerically Controlled) milling machine and toolpaths with the shortest unfolded length, generated by an improved algorithm, based on the Euclidean Distance calculation.
The effect of the predominant tool trajectory direction during the ball burnishing process (which can be coinciding or transverse with the rolling direction), the magnitude of applied deforming force, and feed-rate is subjected to evaluation using Bayesian rule analyses of experimentally obtained results for the fatigue life of AISI 304 steel.
The obtained results give us reason to conclude that the fatigue life of researched steel is increased when directions of pre-rolled plastic deformation and the tool movement during ball burnishing are coincident.
It also been found that the magnitude of deforming force has a stronger impact over the fatigue life, than the feed-rate of the ball tool.
Bruxism can be defined as the process of direct contact with teeth and dental materials with an involuntary jaw-tightening movement.
In this process, teeth and dental materials can be exposed to various damage mechanisms.
This study aims to realize the mechanism of bruxism with finite element analysis and
Austenite and duplex stainless steels are widely used in engineering, and the latter exhibits a more excellent combination of mechanical properties and corrosion resistance due to the coexistence of austenite and ferrite and higher nitrogen.
However, fatigue failure still threatens their structural integrity.
A comprehensive comparison of their cyclic deformation behavior is a major foundation to understand the role of duplex-phase microstructure and nitrogen in the safety assessment of engineering components.
Thus, in this paper, the cyclic deformation behavior of fully-austenitic stainless steel 316L and duplex stainless steel 2205 was studied by a series of low cycle fatigue tests with various strain amplitudes, loading rates and tensile holding.
A theoretical mechanism diagram of the interaction between nitrogen and dislocation movements during cyclic loads was proposed.
Results show that the cyclic stress response of 2205 was the primary cyclic hardening, followed by a long-term cyclic softening regardless of strain amplitudes and rates, while an additional secondary hardening was observed for 316L at greater strain amplitudes.
Cyclic softening of 2205 was restrained under slower strain rates or tensile holding due to the interaction between nitrogen and dislocations.
The cyclic plasticity of 2205 started within the austenite, and gradually translated into the ferrite with the elevation of the cyclic amplitude, which lead to a decreased hardening ratio with the increase in amplitude and a shorter fatigue life for a given smaller plastic strain amplitude.
This study compares four different notch shapes made on the anterior margin of the palatal plates of heat-cured acrylic resin test specimens as well as the effect of self-cured acrylic resin repair on the fatigue resistance of dentures.
The test specimens had the shape of an upper partial denture (n = 25).
The fatigue test applied was a constant-force fatigue test at a force of 150 N.
The stress concentrations during loading the replicas of the test specimens were determined in the field of a circular polarized light.
The results showed that the fatigue resistance of the test specimens decreased dramatically (P = 0.002) when there was a notch at the anterior margin of the palatal plate in the test specimen.
A 90 degree notch decreased the fatigue resistance most effectively.
The test specimens repaired with self-cured acrylic resin were also weaker than the original unnotched test specimens.
Examination of the replicas in the field of polarized light showed that stresses occurred only very close to the notch.
The highest stress concentrations were detected in the test specimen with a 90 degree notch, i.e. the test specimens with the lowest fatigue resistance.
The results of this study suggest that the shape of the anterior margin of the palatal plate in the acrylic resin-based partial denture plays an important role in the fatigue resistance of the dentures.
The effects of up to 4 months dietary supplementation with 40% galactose on muscle and nerve function were examined in rats.
Galactitol, a polyol pathway metabolite, accumulated to high levels in both tissues.
This led to changes similar to those found in experimental diabetes, which were largely prevented by treatment with an inhibitor of the first enzyme in the pathway, aldose reductase.
For fast twitch extensor digitorum longus muscle there was weight loss, fibre damage, slowing of twitch time to peak, increased twitch tension, and reduced tetanic tension.
There were no relaxation deficits.
For slow twitch soleus there were no changes in tension production.
However, contraction and relaxation for both twitch and tetanus were prolonged.
Fatigue resistance was reduced after 1 week.
Damage in soleus led to a reduction in mean fibre area after 2 months, which largely recovered by 4 months.
There was a selective loss of fast oxidative glycolytic fibres.
Histochemical staining for succinic dehydrogenase was normal in galactosaemic soleus, in contrast to the marked reduction seen in diabetes.
Sciatic nerve conduction velocity was reduced after 2 months, particularly in normally fast conducting motor and sensory fibres.
Resistance to hypoxic conduction block was increased in galactosaemic nerves to diabetic levels.
It was concluded that polyol pathway hyperactivity is likely to contribute to the aetiology of diabetic myopathy and neuropathy, and that experimental galactosaemia provides a good model in which to study pathway effects without the complicated hormonal changes found in diabetes.
The tibia is one of the most common sites for bone stress injury (BSI) in active individuals.
BSIs are thought to occur in response to damage accumulation from repetitive loading below the tissue's yield limit.
The effect of fatigue on musculoskeletal biomechanics and tibial bone strain during athletic movements remains unclear.
In this study, participant-specific finite element (FE) and musculoskeletal models in 10 collegiate-basketball players were used to analyze the effect of acute performance fatigue on joint kinematics and torques, ground reaction forces (GRFs), and the magnitude and distribution of tibial bone strains during select basketball maneuvers.
Participants were fatigued by performing repeated exercises wearing a weighted vest until their vertical jump height decreased by 20 %.
Fatigue reduced the vertical GRF during midstance of a jump task, and lowered hip and knee peak extension torques and ankle plantarflexion.
However, fatigue had limited impact on tibial bone strain magnitude and distribution during jumping.
In contrast, there was a shift in peak strain timing following fatigue during a lateral cut task and reduced strain at various times of stance during sprinting.
The results suggest that fatigue was induced and, if anything, reduced tibial bone strain.
As increased bone strain is thought to be associated with increased BSI risk, the reduced strain observed in the current study suggests that fatigue may actually be partly protective, possibly as a result of reduced muscle activation and force production.
An experimental study of fatigue crack growth in dentin was conducted, and the influence of stress ratio (R) on the crack growth rate and mechanisms of cyclic extension were examined.
Double Cantilever Beam (DCB) fatigue specimens were sectioned from bovine molars and then subjected to high cycle fatigue loading (10(5) < N < 10(6)) under hydrated conditions.
The evaluation consisted of Mode I loads with stress ratios that ranged from -0.5 to 0.5.
The fatigue crack growth rates were measured and used to estimate the crack growth exponent (m) and coefficient (C) according to the Paris Law model.
The fatigue crack growth rates for steady-state extension (Region II) ranged from 1E-7 to 1E-4 mm/cycle.
It was found that the rate of cyclic extension increased significantly with increasing R, and that the highest average crack growth rate occurred at a stress ratio of 0.5.
However, the crack growth exponent decreased with increasing R from an average of 4.6 (R = 0.10) to 2.7 (R = 0.50).
The stress intensity threshold for crack growth decreased with increasing R as well.
Results from this study suggest that an increase in the cyclic stress ratio facilitates fatigue crack growth in dentin and increases the rate of cyclic extension, both of which are critical concerns in minimizing tooth fractures and maintaining lifelong oral health.
While it is known that excessive accumulation of fatigue damage from daily activities contributes to fracture, a model of bone failure under physiologically relevant multiaxial cyclic loading needs to be developed in order to develop effective management strategies for stress or fatigue fractures.
The role of strain-induced damage from repetitive loading is a strong candidate for such a model, as cycles of mechanical loading leading to failure can be measured directly.
However, this approach has been limited by the restrictions of uniaxial loading models, which often overestimates the fatigue life of bone and suggests that bone will only break well beyond the realistic limits of exercise.
To address this gap and develop a physiologically relevant model, our study leverages the power of four commonly used engineering failure criteria as a model for multiaxial loading using a cohort of human tibiae from cadaveric donors (age range 21-85 years old).
Four failure criteria (Von Mises, Tsai-Wu, Findley critical plane, and maximum shear strain) were found to be effective in vitro models of tibial fracture when age groups of donors were combined (r
The localized compressive deformation (LCD) effect generated by an indentation process at the crack tip on the fatigue crack growth of the 7075-T651 aluminum alloy is reported.
Eccentrically loaded single-edge crack tension specimens (ESE(T)) were pre-cracked at a crack length of about 20 mm by applying a constant amplitude fatigue loading.
Subsequently, the LCD process was performed by using a semi-spherical indenter with a radius of 16 mm to compress the crack tip zone at different forces (5.0, 7.0, 12.5, 13.5, 15.5 kN), applied on the opposite surfaces of the specimens.
The fatigue cracking process was continued on the compressed samples until an overall crack length of about 30 mm was obtained.
The compressive load and the number of delayed cycles is discussed in terms of crack length and crack tip opening displacement (CTOD).
A direct relationship between the compressive force induced by the LCD process and the delay of the crack propagation due to the crack arrest was observed.
This effect became evident at a compressive force of 5.0 kN, where the crack propagation was arrested for about 9000 cycles in comparison with the non-LCD sample.
However, when the force increased, the crack arrest also increased.
The crack was considered to be completely arrested at a compressive load of 15.5 kN, since the crack did not grow after the application of more than 3 × 10
Inconel 718 is a nickel-based superalloy with excellent creep properties and good tensile and fatigue strength.
In the field of additive manufacturing, it is a versatile and widely used alloy due to its good processability in the powder bed fusion with laser beam (PBF-LB) process.
The microstructure and mechanical properties of the alloy produced by PBF-LB have already been studied in detail.
However, there are fewer studies on the creep resistance of additively manufactured Inconel 718, especially when the focus is on the build direction dependence and post-treatment by hot isostatic pressing (HIP).
Creep resistance is a crucial mechanical property for high-temperature applications.
In this study, the creep behavior of additively manufactured Inconel 718 was investigated in different build orientations and after two different heat treatments.
The two heat treatment conditions are, first, solution annealing at 980 °C followed by aging and, second, HIP with rapid cooling followed by aging.
The creep tests were performed at 760 °C and at four different stress levels between 130 MPa and 250 MPa. A slight influence of the build direction on the creep properties was detected, but a more significant influence was shown for the different heat treatments.
The specimens after HIP heat treatment show much better creep resistance than the specimens subjected to solution annealing at 980 °C with subsequent aging.
In this work, a bone damage resorption finite element model based on the disruption of the inhibitory signal transmitted between osteocytes cells in bone due to damage accumulation is developed and discussed.
A strain-based stimulus function coupled to a damage-dependent spatial function is proposed to represent the connection between two osteocytes embedded in the bone tissue.
The signal is transmitted to the bone surface to activate bone resorption.
The proposed model is based on the idea that the osteocyte signal reduction is not related to the reduction of the stimulus sensed locally by osteocytes due to damage, but to the difficulties for the signal in travelling along a disrupted area due to microcracks that can destroy connections of the intercellular network between osteocytes and bone-lining cells.
To check the potential of the proposed model to predict the damage resorption process, two bone resorption mechano-regulation rules corresponding to two mechanotransduction approaches have been implemented and tested: (1) Bone resorption based on a coupled strain-damage stimulus function without ruptured osteocyte connections (NROC); and (2) Bone resorption based on a strain stimulus function with ruptured osteocyte connections (ROC).
The comparison between the results obtained by both models, shows that the proposed model based on ruptured osteocytes connections predicts realistic results in conformity with previously published findings concerning the fatigue damage repair in bone.
The ability to control the surface topography of orthopedic implant materials is desired to improve osseointegration but is often at the expense of mechanical performance in load bearing environments.
Here we investigate the effects of surface modifications, roughness and porosity, on the mechanical properties of a set of polymers with diverse chemistry and structure.
Both roughness and surface porosity resulted in samples with lower strength, failure strain and fatigue life due to stress concentrations at the surface; however, the decrease in ductility and fatigue strength were greater than the decrease in monotonic strength.
The fatigue properties of the injection molded polymers did not correlate with yield strength as would be traditionally observed in metals.
Rather, the fatigue properties and the capacity to maintain properties with the introduction of surface porosity correlated with the fracture toughness of the polymers.
Polymer structure impacted the materials relative capacity to maintain monotonic and cyclic properties in the face of surface texture and porosity.
Generally, amorphous polymers with large ratios of upper to lower yield points demonstrated a more significant drop in ductility and fatigue strength with the introduction of porosity compared to crystalline polymers with smaller ratios in their upper to lower yield strength.
The latter materials have more effective dissipation mechanisms to minimize the impact of surface porosity on both monotonic and cyclic damage.
To test the hypothesis that a commercial microhybrid resin based composite (Filtek Z250) has superior fatigue resistance to a nanofill composite (Filtek Supreme Plus) and to determine the related micromechanisms involved in the fatigue process.
After 60 days of water hydration, the fatigue crack growth resistance of two different resin composites, one microhybrid (Filtek Z250) and one nanofill (Filtek Supreme Plus), was measured in wet conditions using compact-tension, C(T), specimens at a load ratio of 0.1 and frequency of 2Hz.
Cyclic fatigue behavior was quantified in terms of the fatigue crack growth rate, da/dN, as a function of the stress intensity range, DeltaK.
A sigmoidal da/dN-DeltaK curve with three different fatigue crack growth regimes was identified for both composites.
In general, fatigue crack growth ranged from approximately 10(-9) to 10(-5)m/cycle over DeltaK of 0.54-0.63MPa radicalm for the Z250 composite and DeltaK of 0.41-0.67MPa radicalm for the Supreme Plus composite.
The Supreme Plus composite showed a lower fatigue threshold, DeltaK(th), by approximately 0.13MPa radicalm compared to the Z250 composite, while also showing a plateau in the fatigue crack growth curve that is likely related to environmental attack.
SEM observations of the fatigue crack paths and fracture surfaces revealed an interparticle crack path and extrinsic toughening mechanisms of crack deflection and crack bridging.
No fatigue degradation of reinforcing particles or clusters was found, but cluster-matrix debonding was evident in the Supreme Plus composite, also indicative of environmental attack due to water.
This study increases the understanding of both the fatigue behavior and the micromechanisms of fatigue in resin based dental composites.
EBSD (electron backscattered diffraction) was used to study the fatigue crack propagation mechanism in a friction stir welding joint of a 15 mm-thick 7N01 aluminum alloy plate.
Crack tips with detailed features were clearly characterized by EBSD images.
The plastic zone caused by crack was small in the stir zone.
Due to the fine grain strengthening in the stir zone, there were several lattice distortion regions which were observed in the BC (band contrast) map but disappeared in the SEI (secondary electron image).
In the stir zone, fatigue crack tends to awake and grow along grain boundaries, and propagate with little deformation of the grains.
When the crack tries to grow across a boundary, the deformation of the plastic zone at the crack tip shows little correlation to the cyclic loading direction.
However, the plastic zone in base metal, the rolled plate, is large and continuous, and no obvious lattice distortion region was found.
According to Schmidt factor, the base metal near crack is fully deformed, lots of low angle boundaries parallel to the cyclic force can be observed.
The base metal showed a better ability for fatigue crack propagation resistance.
The improvement and mechanism of the fatigue resistance of TC21 high-strength titanium alloy with a high velocity oxygen fuel (HVOF) sprayed WC-17Co coating was investigated.
X-ray diffraction (XRD) and the corresponding stress measurement instrument, a surface roughness tester, a micro-hardness tester, and a scanning electron microscope (SEM) were used to determine the properties of the HVOF WC-17Co coating with or without shot peening.
The fatigue behavior of the TC21 titanium alloy with or without the WC-17Co coating was determined by using a rotating bending fatigue testing machine.
The results revealed that the polished HVOF sprayed WC-17Co coating had almost the same fatigue resistance as the TC21 titanium alloy substrate.
This resulted from the polishing-induced residual surface compressive stress and a decrease in the stress concentration on the surface of the coating.
Moderate-intensity shot peening of the polished WC-17Co coatings resulted in significant improvement of the fatigue resistance of the alloy.
Furthermore, the fatigue life was substantially higher than that of the substrate, owing to the deep distribution of residual stress and high compressive stress induced by shot peening.
The improved surface toughness of the coating can effectively delay the initiation of fatigue crack propagation.
Based on the critical plane approach, a simple and efficient multiaxial fatigue damage parameter with no additional material constants is proposed for life prediction under uniaxial/multiaxial proportional and/or non-proportional loadings for titanium alloy TC4 and nickel-based superalloy GH4169.
Moreover, two modified Ince-Glinka fatigue damage parameters are put forward and evaluated under different load paths.
Results show that the generalized strain amplitude model provides less accurate life predictions in the high cycle life regime and is better for life prediction in the low cycle life regime; however, the generalized strain energy model is relatively better for high cycle life prediction and is conservative for low cycle life prediction under multiaxial loadings.
In addition, the Fatemi-Socie model is introduced for model comparison and its additional material parameter
Rubber concrete (RC) has been used in fatigue-resistant components due to its durability, yet the numerical simulation of its fatigue properties remains in its early stages.
This study proposes a cohesive zone model (CZM) that accounts for the accumulation of fatigue damage at the mesoscale to investigate the fatigue performance of RC.
The model integrates static and fatigue damage in the CZM, effectively capturing damage caused by fatigue loading.
Validation was conducted using experimental data from the existing literature.
Based on this validation, four concrete beams with varying rubber replacement rates (0%, 5%, 10%, and 15%) were tested.
The CZM was employed to describe the mechanical behavior of the interface transition zones (ITZs) and the mortar interior, which were simulated and analyzed under different stress levels.
The results demonstrate that the model accurately simulates crack propagation paths, interface damage evolution, and the fatigue life of RC beams under fatigue loading.
A functional relationship between fatigue life and stress level was established for various rubber replacement rates.
This study provides a reference model for numerical simulations of RC under fatigue loading conditions and introduces new approaches for analyzing the fatigue performance of other materials.
As one of fracture critical components of an aircraft engine, accurate life prediction of a turbine blade to disk attachment is significant for ensuring the engine structural integrity and reliability.
Fatigue failure of a turbine blade is often caused under multiaxial cyclic loadings at high temperatures.
In this paper, considering different failure types, a new energy-critical plane damage parameter is proposed for multiaxial fatigue life prediction, and no extra fitted material constants will be needed for practical applications.
Moreover, three multiaxial models with maximum damage parameters on the critical plane are evaluated under tension-compression and tension-torsion loadings.
Experimental data of GH4169 under proportional and non-proportional fatigue loadings and a case study of a turbine disk-blade contact system are introduced for model validation.
Results show that model predictions by Wang-Brown (WB) and Fatemi-Socie (FS) models with maximum damage parameters are conservative and acceptable.
For the turbine disk-blade contact system, both of the proposed damage parameters and Smith-Watson-Topper (SWT) model show reasonably acceptable correlations with its field number of flight cycles.
However, life estimations of the turbine blade reveal that the definition of the maximum damage parameter is not reasonable for the WB model but effective for both the FS and SWT models.
Accumulation of damage is a leading factor in the development of tendinopathy.
Apoptosis has been implicated in tendinopathy, but the biological mechanisms responsible for initiation and progression of these injuries are poorly understood.
We assessed the relationship between initial induced damage and apoptotic activity 3 and 7 days after fatigue loading.
We hypothesized that greater apoptotic activity (i) will be associated with greater induced damage and higher number of fatigue loading cycles, and (ii) will be higher at 7 than at 3 days after loading.
Left patellar tendons were fatigue loaded for either 100 or 7,200 cycles.
Diagnostic tests were applied before and after fatigue loading to determine the effect of fatigue loading on hysteresis, elongation, and loading and unloading stiffness (damage parameters).
Cleaved Caspase-3 staining was used to identify and calculate the percent apoptosis in the patellar tendon.
While no difference in apoptotic activity occurred between the 100 and 7,200 cycle groups, greater apoptotic activity was associated with greater induced damage.
Apoptotic activity was higher at 7 than 3 days after loading.
We expect that the decreasing number of healthy cells that can repair the induced damage in the tendon predispose it to further injury.
A microresonator-based interfacial fatigue testing technique was used to investigate the subcritical delamination of atomic-layer-deposited alumina coatings along the sidewalls of deep-reactive-ion-etched monocrystalline silicon thin films.
This technique ensures loading conditions relevant to microelectromechanical system devices, including kHz testing frequency and fully reversed cyclic stresses.
Four different coating thicknesses (4.2, 12.6, 25, and 50 nm) were investigated in two environments (30 °C, 50% relative humidity (RH) and 80 °C, 90% RH).
Fatigue damage, in the form of channel cracks and delamination of the alumina coating, was found to accumulate slowly over more than 1 × 10(8) cycles.
The average delamination rates increase with increasing energy release rate amplitude for delamination, modeled with a power law relationship.
In the harsher environment, the rates are roughly 1 order of magnitude higher.
Additionally, a few tests under static load were conducted for which no delamination (or crack growth) occurred, demonstrating that the governing interfacial fatigue mechanism is cycle-dependent.
Welded structures under random loadings are usually susceptible to fatigue-induced failures that lead to significant economic and safety effects.
However, accurately predicting these structures' fatigue damage and life in the frequency domain remains challenging due to the limitations associated with using traditional weld stress extrapolation methods, such as nominal, hotspot, and notch stress methods.
These methods struggle with precisely defining and characterizing the stresses at the weld toe and root as they vary depending on factors like weld stress concentration effects, joint geometry, and loading modes.
This research introduces an Equilibrium Equivalent Structural Stress (EESS)-based frequency-domain fatigue analysis approach for welded structures subjected to random loading.
The proposed method utilizes the EESS formulations, which are based on the decomposition and characterization of weld toe stresses with a single stress parameter, together with incorporating structural dynamic properties' effects on the stresses acting on the weld joints and the corresponding accumulated fatigue damage of the structure.
The numerical demonstration and validation of the proposed method have been performed using a welded Rectangular Hollow Section (RHS) T-joint structure subjected to stationary random fatigue loading.
The proposed method's fatigue damage and life results are compared with the fatigue test data and the equivalent hotspot stress extrapolation-based technique results.
This study investigates the impact of tightening torque (preload) and the friction coefficient on stress generation and fatigue resistance of a Ti-6Al-4V abutment screw with an internal hexagonal connection under dynamic multi-axial masticatory loads in high-cycle fatigue (HCF) conditions.
A three-dimensional model of the implant-abutment assembly was simulated using ANSYS Workbench 16.2 computer aided engineering software with chewing forces ranging from 300 N to 1000 N, evaluated over 1.35 × 10
Despite a general understanding that bone microdamage has distinct strain dependent morphologies, very little information exists on how different damage morphologies develop and participate in bone fracture.
In this study, cortical bone beams were subjected to the primary or tertiary phases of bending fatigue followed by either post-hoc fracture toughness tests or microdamage analysis to determine the sequence in which linear microcracks and diffuse damage form during bending fatigue and how they affect the propensity of bone to fracture.
The results demonstrate that, following the primary phase, linear microcracks and diffuse damage are formed on the compressive and tensile sides, respectively (p<0.05).
Furthermore, this mode of damage formation results in a greater toughness loss if a fracture crack initiates from the tensile side rather than the compressive side (p<0.05).
Continued loading of bone specimens to the tertiary phase, however, leads to further accumulation of damage only on the compressive side (p<0.05), and this mode of damage formation results in a further toughness loss if a fracture crack initiates from the compressive side rather than the tensile side (p<0.05).
Thus, cortical bone compartmentalizes the damage morphologies in different regions and the sequence of damage production in different phases of cyclic loading to dissipate energy and resist a catastrophic fracture.
The purpose of this study was to develop and validate an in vivo mouse model of tendon fatigue and use this model to investigate and quantify the physical manifestations of fatigue damage in mouse tendon.
Patellar tendons of C57BL/6J mice were fatigue loaded at 2 Hz to three endpoints (4 N peak force per cycle for 1 h, 6 N for 1 h, and 4 N for 2 h), during which hysteresis, tangent stiffness, and peak strain of each cycle were measured.
Damage accumulation was then quantified using in situ histology, and each tendon was loaded monotonically to failure.
Histological damage increased significantly in all three groups (≥2-fold), and monotonic stiffness decreased significantly in the 6 N, 1 h and 4 N, 2-h groups (~25%), suggesting that damage initially manifests as changes to the collagen structure of the tendon and subsequently as changes to the function.
For the fatigue loading protocols used in this study, none of the evaluated real-time parameters from fatigue loading correlated with damage area fraction measured structural damage or monotonic stiffness, suggesting that they are not suited to serve as proxies for damage accumulation.
In future studies, this model will be used to compare the biological response of mouse tendon to fatigue damage across genetic strains.
This study focuses on the fatigue behavior of titanium dental implants as-received, with a grit-blasted surface and with a new bioactive surface treatment (2Steps).
The 2Step process consists of (1) an initial grit-blasting process to produce a micro-rough surface, followed by (2) a combined thermo-chemical treatment that produces a potentially bioactive surface, that is, that can form an apatitic layer when exposed to biomimetic conditions in vitro.
The 2Step treatment produced micro-rough and apatitic coating implants.
The fatigue tests were carried out at 37°C on 500 dental implants, and the S-N curve was determined.
The fatigue-crack nucleation for the different treatments was analyzed.
The fatigue tests show that the grit-blasting process improves the fatigue life.
This is a consequence of the layer of compressive residual stresses that the treatment generates in titanium surfaces.
Dental implants that had its surfaced prepared with the 2Step procedure (grit-blasting and thermo-chemical treatment) had its fatigue life decreased by 10% due to the incorporation of oxygen to the surface and the relaxation of the compressive residual stress produced by the heat treatment.
Thermo-chemical treatment is an excellent compromise between the improvement of bioactive and mechanical long-life behaviors.
Bisphosphonates increase bone mass and reduce fracture risk, but their anti-resorptive action may lead to increases in fatigue microdamage.
To investigate how bisphosphonate effects influence changes in bone volume and microdamage in the long term, a strain-adaptive model of bone remodeling and microdamage balance was developed for a continuum-level volume of postmenopausal trabecular bone by invoking Frost's mechanostat hypothesis.
Both disuse and fatigue microdamage were assumed to stimulate the activation frequency of basic multicellular units (BMUs) such that bone remodeling served to remove excess bone mass and microdamage.
Bisphosphonate effects were simulated as follows: low, intermediate, high, or complete suppression of BMU activation frequency either without a change in resorption by the BMU or with an independent decrease in resorption while the bone formation process was unaffected (i.e., formation initially exceeded resorption).
Of the bisphosphonate effects, a reduction in resorption relative to formation dictated the long-term gain in bone volume while the potency of activation frequency suppression controlled the rate of gain.
A plateau in the bone mass gain that typically occurs in clinical studies of bisphosphonate treatment was predicted by the model because the resultant reduction in strain forced bone formation by the BMU to decrease over time until it matched the reduction in BMU resorption.
A greater suppression of activation frequency proportionally increased microdamage, but the accumulation was limited over the long term as long as remodeling was incompletely suppressed.
The results of the model suggest creating bisphosphonates that provide minimal suppression of remodeling and a large decrease in BMU resorption because this would minimize damage accumulation and increase bone mass, respectively.
Fatigue-induced microdamage in bone contributes to stress and fragility fractures and acts as a stimulus for bone remodelling.
Detecting such microdamage is difficult as pre-existing microdamage sustained in vivo must be differentiated from artefactual damage incurred during specimen preparation.
This was addressed by bulk staining specimens in alcohol-soluble basic fuchsin dye, but cutting and grinding them in an aqueous medium.
Nonetheless, some artefactual cracks are partially stained and careful observation under transmitted light, or epifluorescence microscopy, is required.
Fuchsin lodges in cracks, but is not site-specific.
Cracks are discontinuities in the calcium-rich bone matrix and chelating agents, which bind calcium, can selectively label them.
Oxytetracycline, alizarin complexone, calcein, calcein blue and xylenol orange all selectively bind microcracks and, as they fluoresce at different wavelengths and colours, can be used in sequence to label microcrack growth.
New agents that only fluoresce when involved in a chelate are currently being developed--fluorescent photoinduced electron transfer (PET) sensors.
Such agents enable microdamage to be quantified and crack growth to be measured and are useful histological tools in providing data for modelling the material behaviour of bone.
However, a non-invasive method is needed to measure microdamage in patients.
Micro-CT is being studied and initial work with iodine dyes linked to a chelating group has shown some promise.
In the long term, it is hoped that repeated measurements can be made at critical sites and microdamage accumulation monitored.
Quantification of microdamage, together with bone mass measurements, will help in predicting and preventing bone fracture failure in patients with osteoporosis.
Rigorous preclinical testing of cemented hip prostheses against the damage accumulation failure scenario will reduce the incidence of aseptic loosening.
For that purpose, a finite element simulation is proposed that predicts damage accumulation in the cement mantle and prosthetic migration.
If the simulation is to become a convincing preclinical test, it should be able to distinguish between implants in a clinically relevant way, based on accurate predictions of long-term failure mechanisms of cemented hip prostheses.
The algorithm was used to simulate long-term fatigue experiments on femoral reconstructions with Mueller Curved and Lubinus SPII stems.
Clinically, the Mueller Curved system performs inferior to the Lubinus SPII system.
The finite element simulation predicted much more cement damage around the Mueller Curved stem and showed that the entire cement mantle was involved in the failure process, which was not the case around the Lubinus SPII stem.
In addition, the Mueller Curved stem was predicted to migrate more than the Lubinus SPII.
The predictions showed excellent agreement with the experimental findings: similar damage locations in the cement, more damage for the Mueller Curved, similar prosthetic migration directions, and more migration for the Mueller Curved stem.
This is the first time that a finite element simulation is able to differentiate between a clinically superior and an inferior implant, based on accurate simulation of the long-term failure mechanisms in a cemented reconstruction.
Its use for preclinical testing purposes is corroborated.
Although we are all familiar with the sensation of fatigue, there are still profound divergences on what it represents and its mechanisms.
Fatigue can take various forms depending on the condition in which it develops.
Cancer-related fatigue is considered a symptom of exhaustion that is often present at the time of diagnosis, increases in intensity during cancer therapy, and does not always recede after completion of treatment.
It is usually attributed to the inflammation induced by damage-associated molecular patterns released by tumor cells during cancer progression and in response to its treatment.
In this review, we argue that it is necessary to go beyond the symptoms of fatigue to understand its nature and mechanisms.
We propose to consider fatigue as a psychobiological process that regulates the behavioral activities an organism engages in to satisfy its needs, according to its physical ability to do so and to the capacity of its intermediary metabolism to exploit the resources procured by these activities.
This last aspect is critical as it implies that these metabolic aspects need to be considered to understand fatigue.
Based on the findings we have accumulated over several years of studying fatigue in diverse murine models of cancer, we show that energy metabolism plays a key role in the development and persistence of this condition.
Cancer-related fatigue is dependent on the energy requirements of the tumor and the negative impact of cancer therapy on the mitochondrial function of the host.
When inflammation is present, it adds to the organism's energy expenses.
The organism needs to adjust its metabolism to the different forms of cellular stress it experiences thanks to specialized communication factors known as mitokines that act locally and at a distance from the cells in which they are produced.
They induce the subjective, behavioral, and metabolic components of fatigue by acting in the brain.
Therefore, the targeting of mitokines and their brain receptors offers a window of opportunity to treat fatigue when it is no longer adaptive but an obstacle to the quality of life of cancer survivors.
In this article a theoretical framework is developed for the mechanics of kidney stones with an isotropic, random microstructure--such as those comprised of cystine or struvite.
The approach is based on a micromechanical description of kidney stones comprised of crystals in a binding matrix.
Stress concentration functions are developed to determine load sharing of the particle phase and the binding matrix phase.
Measurements have shown the inclusions to be considerably harder than the binder; consequently, loading of a stone leads to higher stresses in the inclusions than in the binder.
As an illustration of the theory, the fatigue of kidney stones subject to shock-wave lithotripsy is considered.
Stress concentration functions are used to construct fatigue-life estimates for each phase, as a function of the volume fraction and of the mechanical properties of the constituents, as well as the loading from SWL.
The failure of the binding matrix, or of the particulate phase, is determined explicitly in a model for the accumulation of distributed damage.
The theory can be used to assess the importance of microscale heterogeneity on the comminution of renal calculi, and to estimate the number of cycles to failure in terms of measurable material properties.
The fatigue properties of thermo-mechanically treated and machined aluminum alloy 7475-T7351 have been studied.
The applied advanced machining strategy induced intensive plastic deformation on the machined surface under defined cutting conditions.
Therefore, a detailed study of 3D surface topography was performed.
Advanced characterization of the material structure and electron back scattered diffraction mapping of selected chemical phases were performed, as well as energy dispersive X-ray analysis of the surface.
Advanced mechanical properties of the material were investigated in situ with a scanning electron microscope that was equipped with a unique tensile fixture.
The fatigue results confirmed an evident dispersion of the data, but the mechanism of crack nucleation was established.
Fracture surface analysis showed that the cracks nucleated at the brittle secondary particles dispersed in the material matrix.
The surface topography of samples that had been machined in wide range of cutting/deformation conditions by milling has not proved to be a decisive factor in terms of the fatigue behavior.
The incoherent interface and decohesion between the alumina matrix and the brittle secondary phases proved to significantly affect the ultimate strength of the material. Tool engagement also affected the fatigue resistance of the material.
The method of considering a single loading condition in the study of stress/morphology relationships in trabecular bone is expanded to include the multiple loading conditions experienced by bone in vivo.
The bone daily loading histories are characterized in terms of stress magnitudes or cyclic strain energy density and the number of loading cycles.
Relationships between local bone apparent density and loading history are developed which assume that bone mass is adjusted in response to strength or energy considerations.
Three different bone maintenance criteria are described which are formulated based upon: (1) continuum model effective stress, (2) continuum model fatigue damage accumulation density, and (3) bone tissue strain energy density.
These approaches can be applied to predict variations in apparent density within bone and among bones.
We show that all three criteria have similar mathematical forms and may be related to the density (or concentration) of bone strain energy which is transferred (dissipated) in the mineralized tissue.
The loading history and energy transfer concepts developed here can be applied to many different situations of growth, functional adaptation, injury, and aging of connective tissues.
In this paper, a Paris law-based model is presented whereby crack propagation occurs under cyclic loading in air (
This paper examines the mechanics of the tibiotalocalcaneal construct made with a PHILOS plating system.
A failed device consisting of the LCP plate and cortical, locking, and cannulated screws was used to perform the analysis.
Visual, microstructure, and fractographic examinations were carried out to characterize the fracture surface topology.
These examinations revealed the presence of surface scratching, inclusions, discoloration, corrosion pits, beach marks, and cleavage and striations on the fracture surface.
Further examination of the material crystallography and texture revealed an interaction of S, Ni, and Mo-based inclusions that may have raised pitting susceptibility of the device made with Stainless Steel 316L.
These features suggest that the device underwent damage by pitting the corrosion-fatigue mechanism and overloading towards the end to fail the plate and screws in two or more components.
The screws failed via conjoint bending and torsion fatigue mechanisms.
Computer simulations of variable angle locking screws were performed in this paper.
The material of construction of the device was governed by ASTM F138-8 or its ISO equivalent 5832 and exhibited inconsistencies in chemistry and hardness requirements.
The failure conditions were matched in finite element modeling and those boundary conditions discussed in this paper.
Characterising the mechanisms causing viscoelastic mechanical properties of human cortical bone, as well as understanding sources of variation, is important in predicting response of the bone to creep and fatigue loads.
Any better understanding, when incorporated into simulations including finite element analysis, would assist bioengineers, clinicians and biomedical scientists.
In this study, we used an empirically verified model of creep strain accumulation, in a simulation of 10 non-homogeneous samples, which were created from micro-CT scans of human cortical bone of the femur midshaft obtained from a 74-year-old female cadaver.
These non-homogeneous samples incorporate the presence of Haversian canals and resorption cavities.
The influence of inhomogeneity on the response and variation in the samples in both creep and stress relaxation tests are examined.
The relationship between steady-state creep rate, applied loads (stress relaxation and creep tests) and microstructure, that is bone apparent porosity, is obtained.
These relations may provide insight into damage accumulation of whole human bones and be relevant to studies on osteoporosis.
In this article, we characterize and review the unusual lack of threshold in fatigue crack growth (FCG) behavior for some alloys at low values of stress intensity factor ranges ΔK and its implications to damage-tolerant design approaches.
This unusual behavior was first observed by Marci in 1996 in IMI 834 alloy.
Conventional applications of linear elastic fracture mechanics to FCG analysis at constant R-ratio (or K
Selective laser melting (SLM) Ti-6Al-4V has been used for removable partial dentures, but the impact of SLM Ti-6Al-4V build orientation is not evident.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to investigate the microstructure and properties of SLM Ti-6Al-4V clasps with different build orientations compared with cast Ti-6Al-4V clasps.
Forty-eight clasps were made from Ti-6Al-4V alloys-by SLM with 3 different build orientations (SLM0, SLM45, and SLM90) and cast (CAST) as a control.
The microstructure was investigated by using a metallographic microscope and a confocal laser scanning microscope.
The fit and surface roughness of the clasps were measured, and the physical properties were evaluated.
In addition, the von Mises stresses in the clasps were calculated by finite element analysis.
All specimens were then subjected to insertion and removal tests in artificial saliva to model 5 years of clinical use.
After these tests, 3-point bend tests were used to analyze the fracture surface of the clasp arms, which were observed by using a scanning electron microscope.
All data were statistically analyzed (α=.05).
The microstructure of the Ti-6Al-4V specimens was a comixture of α+β phases.
In addition, growth directions of β grains were approximately parallel to the build orientation, with acicular α grains present between β grains.
SLM0 and SLM45 had significantly higher roughness than SLM90.
Even though the fit was inferior to that of SLM90, SLM0 and SLM45 still performed better than cast specimens (P<.05).
The finite element analysis showed that the maximum von Mises stress was located on the middle part of the retainer arms and that the values of the 0.50-mm undercut clasps were much lower than the elastic limit.
In addition, the decrease of retentive force in SLM90 clasps was less than that of the CAST group (P<.05).
CAST clasps showed brittle fracture, whereas all SLM clasps showed ductile fracture.
The microstructure of SLM Ti-6Al-4V affected the properties of clasps by changing the anisotropy of specimens.
Among the tested groups, SLM90 clasps had the best fit, the lowest surface roughness, and the best fatigue resistance.
Furthermore, SLM Ti-6Al-4V clasps could be engaged into 0.50-mm undercuts.
It is difficult to study the breakdown of lumbar disc tissue over several years of exposure to bending and lifting by experimental methods.
In our earlier published study we have shown how a finite element model of a healthy lumbar motion segment was used to predict the damage accumulation location and number of cyclic to failure under different loading conditions.
The aim of the current study was to extend the continuum damage mechanics formulation to the degenerated discs and investigate the initiation and progression of mechanical damage.
Healthy disc model was modified to represent degenerative discs (Thompson grade III and IV) by incorporating both geometrical and biochemical changes due to degeneration.
Analyses predicted decrease in the number of cycles to failure with increasing severity of disc degeneration.
The study showed that the damage initiated at the posterior inner annulus adjacent to the endplates and propagated outwards towards its periphery in healthy and grade III degenerated discs.
The damage accumulated preferentially in the posterior region of the annulus.
However in grade IV degenerated disc damage initiated at the posterior outer periphery of the annulus and propagated circumferentially.
The finite element model predictions were consistent with the infrequent occurrence of rim lesions at early age but a much higher incidence in severely degenerated discs.
As a new treatment process after welding, the process parameters of laser shock peening (LSP) in dynamic strain aging (DSA) temperature regimes can be precisely controlled, and the process is a non-contact one.
The effects of LSP at elevated temperatures on the distribution of the surface residual stress of AA6061-T6 welded joints were investigated by using X-ray diffraction technology with the sin²
This study was undertaken to investigate physiological adaptation with two endurance-training periods differing in intensity distribution.
In a randomized crossover fashion, separated by 4 wk of detraining, 12 male cyclists completed two 6-wk training periods: 1) a polarized model [6.4 (±1.4 SD) h/wk; 80%, 0%, and 20% of training time in low-, moderate-, and high-intensity zones, respectively]; and 2) a threshold model [7.5 (±2.0 SD) h/wk; 57%, 43%, and 0% training-intensity distribution].
Before and after each training period, following 2 days of diet and exercise control, fasted skeletal muscle biopsies were obtained for mitochondrial enzyme activity and monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) 1 and 4 expression, and morning first-void urine samples were collected for NMR spectroscopy-based metabolomics analysis.
Endurance performance (40-km time trial), incremental exercise, peak power output (PPO), and high-intensity exercise capacity (95% maximal work rate to exhaustion) were also assessed.
Endurance performance, PPOs, lactate threshold (LT), MCT4, and high-intensity exercise capacity all increased over both training periods.
Improvements were greater following polarized rather than threshold for PPO [mean (±SE) change of 8 (±2)% vs. 3 (±1)%, P < 0.05], LT [9 (±3)% vs. 2 (±4)%, P < 0.05], and high-intensity exercise capacity [85 (±14)% vs. 37 (±14)%, P < 0.05].
No changes in mitochondrial enzyme activities or MCT1 were observed following training.
A significant multilevel, partial least squares-discriminant analysis model was obtained for the threshold model but not the polarized model in the metabolomics analysis.
A polarized training distribution results in greater systemic adaptation over 6 wk in already well-trained cyclists.
Markers of muscle metabolic adaptation are largely unchanged, but metabolomics markers suggest different cellular metabolic stress that requires further investigation.
The fatigue loading of bone results in the degradation of mechanical properties such as strength and stiffness.
Even though several authors have investigated the relationship between the longitudinal modulus and loading cycles, the reduction in Poisson's ratio and its relationship to fatigue loading cycles have not previously been investigated.
In this study, the reduction in the major Poisson's ratio and longitudinal modulus for cortical bone specimens as a result of tensile fatigue was experimentally investigated.
We compared the results of the major Poisson's ratio reduction to the reduction in longitudinal modulus to determine if there was a relationship between the two.
The results showed that the reduction in Poisson's ratio was about 8-22% higher than the reduction in longitudinal modulus, indicating that more microdamage accumulated transversely than longitudinally.
Both the longitudinal modulus and major Poisson's ratio decreased in a logarithmic fashion with increasing loading cycles for the bone specimens tested.
Propagating deformation bands are observed to accommodate the initial plasticity in an as-extruded Mg-1.5Nd alloy under tension using digital-image-correlation.
The propagating bands cause an uncommon plateau in the stress-strain response of the alloy prior to restoring a common decreasing work hardening with further straining.
Effects of the deformation banding and underlying plateau in the flow stress on small scale yielding are investigated during low cycle fatigue (LCF) and tension of notched specimens.
Alternating formation/disappearance of deformation bands in the gauge section of as-extruded LCF specimens during testing is observed to reduce life compared to annealed specimens exhibiting no instabilities.
In contrast, the bands deflect the plastic zone ahead of the notch from the principal plane orthogonal to the applied loading inducing positive effect on toughness of the alloy.
In this study, the tensile properties, low-cycle fatigue behavior, and microscopic fatigue-failure mechanisms of 316H stainless steel in the temperature range of 600-800 °C were systematically investigated by means of tensile tests, high-temperature low-cycle fatigue tests, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis of fatigue fracture surfaces.
Based on experimental data fitting, a life prediction model for the material in the high-temperature regime was established.
The results indicate that the mechanical behavior of 316H stainless steel under both static and cyclic loading is significantly influenced by temperature and strain amplitude.
Compared with its room-temperature properties, at 800 °C, the elastic modulus of 316H stainless steel decreases by approximately 30%, the tensile strength drops by about 60%, while the elongation after fracture increases by roughly 100%.
Within the temperature range of 600-800 °C, the fatigue performance deteriorates with the increasing temperature, and the cyclic hardening rate accelerates as the temperature rises.
The fracture mode in the instantaneous fracture zone of the fatigue fracture surface transitions from predominantly transgranular fracture to a mixed mode of transgranular and intergranular fracture as the temperature increases to 800 °C.
Under higher strain amplitudes (around 0.6%), 316H stainless steel exhibits Masing behavior and dynamic strain aging (DSA).
Correspondingly, the crack-initiation mode on the fatigue fracture surface shifts from a single surface source to multiple surface sources.
A three-parameter model was employed to fit the strain-amplitude versus fatigue-life relationships of 316H stainless steel in the 600-800 °C range, showing good agreement with the experimental data, with most data points falling within a factor-of-two error band.
Frictional and fretting wear behaviors of Inconel X-750 alloy against GCr15 steel ball were investigated in dry contact condition with ∼60% air humidity.
Fretting tests were run at the high frequency tribosystem SRV 4 in room temperature and ball-on-flat contact configuration were adopted with the relative oscillatory motion of small displacement amplitude (40
This study investigated experimentally the fracture properties, i.e., the fatigue strength, the resistance to crack propagation and the fracture toughness, of an acrylic bone cement (Cemex RX).
The mean endurance limit was determined following the staircase method.
The endurance limit was estimated at 9.2 MPa. The fatigue crack propagation rate was measured according to the ASTM E647 standard.
The equation of the line fitting the crack growth per cycle (da/dN) versus the stress-intensity factor range (delta K), in a log-log graph, was used to calculate the empirical constants of Paris' law for the selected bone cement: da/dN (m/cycle) = 3.56 x 10(-7) x delta K (MPa x m1/2)5.79.
This power-law relationship described well (R2 = 0.96) the growth rate in the stable crack growth region, i.e., in the mid delta K range.
The fracture toughness K(IC) of the bone cement was determined according to the ASTM E399 standard.
The K(IC) mean value was 1.38 MPa x m1/2.
These experimental results provide the set of necessary inputs for numerical studies aimed to investigate the damage accumulation process in the mantle fixing cemented prostheses.
A comparative analysis of fracture mechanisms in high- and very high- cycle fatigue (HCF, VHCF) regimes was carried out based on the results of multifractal analysis of the fracture surfaces of additively manufactured 316L stainless steel samples.
In terms of scale invariants, the morphology of fracture surfaces in HCF and VHCF regimes inside and outside the fine granular area is shown.
The analysis demonstrated that chaotic patterns of relief formation prevail in the crack initiation zone of VHCF samples.
However, there is a self-similar relief with a pronounced correlation in the crack propagation area.
The relief of the crack growth areas for HCF and VHCF samples are similar to each other.
A golf-related ACL injury can be linked with excessive golf play or practice because such over-use by repetitive golf swing motions can increase damage accumulation to the ACL bundles.
In this study, joint angular rotations, forces, and moments, as well as the forces and strains on the ACL of the target-side knee joint, were investigated for ten professional golfers using the multi-body lower extremity model.
The fatigue life of the ACL was also predicted by assuming the estimated ACL force as a cyclic load.
The ACL force and strain reached their maximum values within a short time just after ball-impact in the follow-through phase.
The smaller knee flexion, higher internal tibial rotation, increase of the joint compressive force and knee abduction moment in the follow-through phase were shown as to lead an increased ACL loading.
The number of cycles to fatigue failure (fatigue life) in the ACL might be several thousands.
It is suggested that the excessive training or practice of swing motion without enough rest may be one of factors to lead to damage or injury in the ACL by the fatigue failure.
The present technology can provide fundamental information to understand and prevent the ACL injury for golf players.
This study aimed at determining whether data previously gathered for a laser welds and IR brazings using a Au-Pd alloy were applicable to titanium joints.
As to its resistance under fatigue loading, Au-Pd alloy had shown a poor response to pre-ceramic laser welding and post-ceramic brazing.
The present study was designed to assess the mechanical resistance, the microstructure and the elemental diffusion of laser welded, electric arch welded and brazed joints using commercially pure titanium as substrate metal. Mechanical resistance was determined by determining the joints' ultimate tensile strength and their resistance to fatigue loading.
Elemental diffusion to and from the joints was assessed using microprobe tracings.
Optical micrographs of the joints were also obtained and evaluated.
Under monotonic tensile stress, three groups emerged: (1) the GTAW and the native (i.e. as received) substrate, (2) the annealed substrate and the laser welds and (3) the brazed joints.
Under fatigue stress, the order was: first the native and annealed substrate, second the brazings and laser welds, third the GTAW joints.
No Au-filler brazing withstood the applied fatigue loading.
The micrographs showed various patterns, an absence of HAZ cracking and several occurrences of Widmanstätten structures.
Elemental diffusion to and from the Ti substrate was substantial in the Ti filler brazings and virtually nil in the Au-based brazings.
Under fatigue stress application, the titanium-based brazings as well as the laser- and electric arc welds performed equally well if not better than a previously tested AuPd alloy.
There was a definite increase in grain size with increased heat application.
However, no feature of the microstructures observed or the elemental analysis could be correlated with the specimen's resistance to fatigue stress application.
The aim of this study was to investigate the spall propagation mechanism in ball bearing raceways using physics-based models.
Spalling is one of the most common types of bearing failures that can lead to catastrophic failure.
This research takes a step forward toward developing a prognostic tool for ball bearings.
It is first necessary to understand the spall progression process in order to formulate a constitutive law of spall deterioration and to estimate the amount of remaining useful life.
Fragment formation in the vicinity of the spall edge was found to consist of surface and sub-surface cracks that eventually coalesce, and a fragment is released from the raceway, based on naturally-developed spalls.
Here, we describe a physics-based model, integrating a dynamic model with a finite element one to simulate this process.
A continuum damage mechanics (CDM) approach and fracture mechanics tools were embedded into the finite element model to simulate the damage propagation.
The formation of cracks in the vicinity of the spall (surface and sub-surface cracks) were studied using this effective stress CDM model, and the propagation of the cracks was examined using two approaches: a fracture mechanics approach and an accumulated inelastic hysteresis energy CDM approach.
The latter also predicts the overall process of a single fragment release.
The simulation results of the spall propagation models are supported by experimental results of spalls from both laboratory experimental bearings and an in-service Sikorsky CH-53 helicopter swashplate bearing.
The results obtained show that the impact of the ball on the spall edge affects the crack propagation and the appearance of the surface and sub-surface cracks.
Both release the residual stresses and cause crack propagation until a fragment is released.
Patients diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) or fibromyalgia experience chronic pain.
Concomitantly, the rat model of CFS exhibits microglial activation in the lumbar spinal cord and pain behavior without peripheral tissue damage and/or inflammation.
The present study addressed the mechanism underlying the association between pain and chronic stress using this rat model.
Chronic or continuous stress-loading (CS) model rats, housed in a cage with a thin level of water (1.5 cm in depth), were used.
The von Frey test and pressure pain test were employed to measure pain behavior.
The neuronal and microglial activations were immunohistochemically demonstrated with antibodies against ATF3 and Iba1.
Electromyography was used to evaluate muscle activity.
The expression of ATF3, a marker of neuronal hyperactivity or injury, was first observed in the lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons 2 days after CS initiation.
More than 50% of ATF3-positive neurons simultaneously expressed the proprioceptor markers TrkC or VGluT1, whereas the co-expression rates for TrkA, TrkB, IB4, and CGRP were lower than 20%.
Retrograde labeling using fluorogold showed that ATF3-positive proprioceptive DRG neurons mainly projected to the soleus.
Substantial microglial accumulation was observed in the medial part of the dorsal horn on the fifth CS day.
Microglial accumulation was observed around a subset of motor neurons in the dorsal part of the ventral horn on the sixth CS day.
The motor neurons surrounded by microglia were ATF3-positive and mainly projected to the soleus.
Electromyographic activity in the soleus was two to three times higher in the CS group than in the control group.
These results suggest that chronic proprioceptor activation induces the sequential activation of neurons along the spinal reflex arc, and the neuronal activation further activates microglia along the arc.
Proprioceptor suppression by ankle joint immobilization significantly suppressed the accumulation of microglia in the spinal cord, as well as the pain behavior.
Our results indicate that proprioceptor-induced microglial activation may be a key player in the initiation and maintenance of abnormal pain in patients with CFS.
A growing fatigue crack gives rise to a plastic enclave that envelops the crack and can exert a shielding effect on the crack from the global elastic stress field driving fatigue propagation.
This work presents the potential of the CJP model of crack tip fields to investigate the plasticity-induced shielding effects on growing fatigue cracks as well as its ability to characterise the size and shape of the plastic zone generated at the tip of a growing fatigue crack.
The model was specifically developed to consider the influence of the plastic enclave generated around a fatigue crack on the surrounding elastic material. Different aspects related to fracture mechanics and its implications for fatigue crack growth have been investigated, namely plasticity-induced crack shielding, the retardation effect induced on fatigue crack growth due to the application of an overload and the estimate of the size and shape of the crack tip plastic zone.
The model has been successfully applied by analysing displacement fields experimentally measured by DIC in different CT specimens made of 2024-T3 aluminium alloy and commercially pure titanium.
Results presented in this work intend to contribute to a better understanding of the shielding effects during fatigue crack growth.
As a promising candidate in the construction industry, iron-based shape memory alloy (Fe-SMA) has attracted lots of attention in the engineering and metallography communities because of its foreseeable benefits including corrosion resistance, shape recovery capability, excellent plastic deformability, and outstanding fatigue resistance.
Pilot applications have proved the feasibility of Fe-SMA as a highly efficient functional material in the construction sector.
This paper provides a review of recent developments in research and design practice related to Fe-SMA.
The basic mechanical properties are presented and compared with conventional structural steel, and some necessary explanations are given on the metallographic transformation mechanism.
Newly emerged applications, such as Fe-SMA-based prestressing/strengthening techniques and seismic-resistant components/devices, are discussed.
It is believed that Fe-SMA offers a wide range of applications in the construction industry but there still remains problems to be addressed and areas to be further explored.
Some research needs at material-level, component-level, and system-level are highlighted in this paper.
With the systematic information provided, this paper not only benefits professionals and researchers who have been working in this area for a long time and wanting to gain an in-depth understanding of the state-of-the-art, but also helps enlighten a wider audience intending to get acquainted with this exciting topic.
Fatigue crack growth experiments are performed using A7075-T6 compact tension (CT) specimens with various thicknesses
Severe plastic deformation (SPD) of titanium creates an ultrafine-grained (UFG) microstructure which results in significantly enhanced mechanical properties, including increasing the high cycle fatigue strength.
This work addresses the challenge of maintaining the high level of properties as SPD processing techniques are evolved from methods suitable for producing laboratory scale samples to methods suitable for commercial scale production of titanium semi-products.
Various ways to optimize the strength and fatigue endurance limit in long-length Grade 4 titanium rod processed by equal channel angular pressing (ECAP) with subsequent thermal mechanical treatments are considered in this paper.
Low-temperature annealing of rods is found to increase the fatigue limit, simultaneously enhancing UFG titanium strength and ductility.
The UFG structure in titanium provides an optimum combination of properties when its microstructure includes mostly equiaxed grains with high-angle boundaries, the volume fraction of which is no less than 50%.
A metallurgical zirconium nitride (ZrN) layer was fabricated using glow metallurgy using nitriding with zirconiuming prior treatment of the Ti6Al4V alloy.
The microstructure, composition and microhardness of the corresponding layer were studied.
The influence of this treatment on fretting wear (FW) and fretting fatigue (FF) behavior of the Ti6Al4V alloy was studied.
The composite layer consisted of an 8-μm-thick ZrN compound layer and a 50-μm-thick nitrogen-rich Zr-Ti solid solution layer.
The surface microhardness of the composite layer is 1775 HK
Friction stir spot welding (FSSW) technology relies on the generation of frictional heat during the rotation of the welding tool in contact with the workpiece as well as the stirring effect of the tool pin to produce solid-state spot joints, especially for lightweight materials.
Although FSSW offers significant advantages over traditional fusion welding, the oxidation of the interfacial bond line remains one of the most challenging issues, affecting the quality and strength of the joint under both static and cyclic loading conditions.
In this experimental study, inert argon gas was employed to surround the joint, aiming to prevent or minimize the formation of the interfacial oxides.
Two welding processes were conducted with identical welding process parameters and welding tool geometry: the conventional process and another that employs an inert gas cover.
Micrographs of as-welded specimens were analyzed using a computerized optical microscope to characterize the interfacial bond lines and an energy-dispersive spectroscope (EDS) was used to quantify the interfacial oxides.
Specimens from both welding conditions were tested under static and cyclic loads to investigate the static and fatigue behaviors, respectively.
The fatigue tested specimens were examined under different load levels to investigate the fatigue crack behavior and the modes of failure at low-cycle and high-cycle fatigue conditions.
The optical micrographs showed significant improvement in bond line morphologies (33% enlarged fully bonded area) and both static and fatigue strengths (35% reduced partially bonded area) when the inert gas cover was used.
The EDS analysis revealed a maximum reduction of the interfacial oxide of 41% in the bond line achieved in the argon-surrounded joints compared to specimens of the conventional welding process.
Accordingly, an improvement of 14% in the static strength was reached, along with 60% and 26% in the fatigue strengths at low- and high-cycle fatigue conditions, respectively.
Ultrasonic fatigue testing equipment is presented that is capable of performing constant amplitude (CA) and variable amplitude (VA) experiments at different constant load ratios.
This equipment is used to study cyclic properties of aluminium alloy 2024-T351 in the high cycle fatigue (HCF) and very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) regime at load ratios R=-1 and R=0.5.
CA loading does not reveal a fatigue limit below 10¹⁰ cycles.
Cracks leading to VHCF failure start at broken constituent particles.
Specimens that survived more than 10¹⁰ cycles at R=-1 contain non-propagating cracks of lengths below grain size.
Resonance frequency and nonlinearity parameter β(rel) show changes of vibration properties of specimens at low fractions of their VHCF lifetime.
VA lifetimes are measured in the HCF and VHCF regime and compared with Miner calculations.
Damage sums decrease with decreasing load (and increasing mean lifetimes) and are lower for R=0.5 than R=-1.
Accurate testing history data is necessary for all fatigue life prediction approaches, but such data is always deficient especially for the microelectronic devices.
Additionally, the sequence of the individual load cycle plays an important role in physical fatigue damage.
However, most of the existing models based on the linear damage accumulation rule ignore the sequence effects.
This paper proposes a thermal fatigue life prediction model for ball grid array (BGA) packages to take into consideration the load sequence effects.
For the purpose of improving the availability and accessibility of testing data, a new failure criterion is discussed and verified by simulation and experimentation.
The consequences for the fatigue underlying sequence load conditions are shown.
Roughening of Ti6Al4V by blasting with alumina or zirconia particles improves the mechanical fixation of implants by increasing the surface area available for bone/implant apposition.
Additional thermal oxidation treatments of the blasted alloy have already shown to be a complementary low-cost solution to enhancing the in vitro biocompatibility and corrosion resistance of the alloy.
In this work, the effects of oxidation treatment on a grit blasted Ti6Al4V biomedical alloy have been analysed in order to understand the net effect of the combined treatments on the alloy fatigue properties.
Synchrotron radiation diffraction experiments have been performed to measure residual stresses before and after the treatments and microstructural and hardness changes have been determined.
Although blasting of Ti6Al4V with small spherical zirconia particles increases the alloy fatigue resistance with respect to unblasted specimens, fatigue strength after oxidation decreases below the unblasted value, irrespective of the type of particle used for blasting.
Moreover, at 700°C the as-blasted compressive residual stresses (700MPa) are not only fully relaxed but even moderate tensile residual stresses, of about 120MPa, are found beneath the blasted surfaces.
Contrary to expectations, a moderate increase in hardness occurs towards the blasted surface after oxidation treatments.
This can be attributed to the fact that grit blasting modifies the crystallographic texture of the Ti6Al4V shifting it to a random texture, which affects the hardness values as shown by additional experiments on cold rolled samples.
The results indicate that the oxidation treatment performed to improve biocompatibility and corrosion resistance of grit blasted Ti6Al4V should be carried out with caution since the alloy fatigue strength can be critically diminished below the value required for high load-bearing components.
In this paper we propose a methodology for a fast numerical determination of low cycle fatigue lifetime of superelastic shape memory alloy structures.
This method is based on the observation that generally, in low cycle fatigue, shape memory alloy (SMA) structures are subject to loadings that lead to a confined non-linear behaviour at stress concentration points, such as notches.
Numerical fatigue lifetime prediction requires the computation of the mechanical state at critical points.
However, classical computational methods, like the non-linear finite element method, lead to a prohibitive computation time in a non-linear cyclic framework.
To overcome this issue, we propose to use fast prediction methods, based on localization laws.
Following the determination of the stabilized behaviour, an energetic fatigue criterion is applied.
The numerical fatigue life prediction model is validated experimentally on SMA endodontic instruments.
With the prestressed carbon fiber reinforced polymer (CFRP) strengthening technique widely used in reinforced concrete (RC) structures, it is more and more important to study the fatigue performance of RC structures.
Since the fracture of a tensile steel bar at the main cracked section is the leading reason for the failure of RC beams reinforced by prestressed CFRP, a fatigue life prediction model of RC beams reinforced by prestressed CFRP was developed based on an accumulative damage model.
Moreover, gradual degradation of the performance of the concrete was considered in the fatigue life prediction model.
An experimental study was also conducted to research the fatigue behavior of RC beams reinforced by prestressed or non-prestressed carbon fiber laminate (CFL).
During the tests, fatigue crack patterns were captured using a digital image correlation (DIC) technique, and the fatigue lives of a total of 30 beams were recorded.
The results showed that the predicted main crack propagation curves and the fatigue lives were close to the experimental data.
This study also exhibited that the prestressed CFRP could reduce the stress of main steel bars in RC beams and effectively improve the fatigue performance of the RC beams.
Injury models for spondylolytic fracture of the pars interarticularis have long considered repetitive shear loading as a risk factor without quantifying the relationship between shear force magnitude and fatigue life.
This investigation sought to quantify the relationship using a basic in vitro approach.
Thirty-two (16 C3-C4, 16 C5-C6) porcine cervical specimens were exposed to repetitive shear loading to 20%, 40%, 60%, or 80% of their calculated ultimate anterior shear failure tolerance.
Shear force was cyclically applied at 1Hz for 21,600cycles or until bone failure was detected.
Cumulative shear force and the number of cycles sustained until failure were calculated.
Failure patterns were also documented.
Cumulative shear and the number of cycles sustained prior to failure demonstrated a strong non-linearly decreasing relationship with increased force magnitude.
In particular, sustained cumulative shear by the 40% group was 2.52 and 2.63MN∗s higher than for the 60% and 80% groups (P<0.0001).
Despite undergoing an average of 230 more loading cycles, cumulative shear force sustained by the 60% group was not statistically different from the 80% group.
Bilateral fractures of the cranial vertebra's pars interarticularis were most common, but less consistent at higher force magnitudes.
Our investigation suggested that pars interarticularis damage may begin non-linearly accumulating with shear forces between 20% and 40% of failure tolerance (approximately 430 to 860N).
Models of pars interarticularis injury and estimates of cumulative shear exposure may be enhanced from a tissue-based weighting method for low-back shear.
Transient ischaemic attack (TIA) is defined by short-lasting, stroke-like symptoms, and is recognised as a medical emergency.
Symptoms are assumed to completely resolve, and treatment is focused on secondary stroke/TIA prevention.
However, evidence suggests that patients with TIA may experience ongoing residual impairments, which they do not receive therapy for as standard practice.
TIA-induced sequelae could impact on patients' quality of life and ability to return to work or social activities.
We aim to investigate whether TIA is associated with subsequent consultation for fatigue, psychological or cognitive impairment in primary care.
A retrospective open cohort study of patients with first-ever TIA and matched controls.
Relevant data will be extracted from The Health Improvement Network (THIN) database, an anonymised primary care database which includes data for over 12 million patients and covers approximately 6% of the UK population.
Outcomes will be the first consultation for fatigue, anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or cognitive impairment.
Principal analysis will use Kaplan-Meier survivor functions to estimate time to first consultation, with log-rank tests to compare TIA and control patients.
Cox proportional hazard models will predict the effect of demographic and patient characteristics on time to first consultation.
Approval was granted by a THIN Scientific Review Committee (ref: 14-008).
The study's findings will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and disseminated at national and international conferences and through social media.
Rivets are usually used to connect the skin of an aircraft with joints such as frames and stringers, so the skin of the connection part is a porous structure.
During the service of the aircraft, cracks appear in some difficult-to-detect parts of the skin porous structure, which causes great difficulties in the service life prediction and health monitoring of the aircraft.
In this paper, a secondary development subroutine in PYTHON based on ABAQUS-XFEM is compiled to analyze the cracks that are difficult to monitor in the porous structure of aircraft skin joints.
The program can automatically analyze the stress intensity factor of the crack tip with different lengths in the porous structure, and then the residual fatigue life can be deduced.
For the sake of safety, the program adopts a more conservative algorithm.
In comparison with the physical fatigue test results, the fatigue life of the simulation results is 16% smaller.
This project provides a feasible simulation method for fatigue life prediction of porous structures.
It lays a foundation for the subsequent establishment of digital twins for damage monitoring of aircraft porous structures.
The growing emphasis on sustainability and environmental impact has driven increased demand for eco-friendly tyres.
Tyre components are usually subjected to substantial static and dynamic load and often fail due to crack initiation and crack propagation.
Understanding of the deformation mechanism of tyre components under fatigue loading is essential for enhancing the safety and reliability of tyres.
In recent years, advanced tools for predicting fatigue and wear have been introduced, improving the accuracy of virtual prototyping and enabling more extensive evaluation of design concepts at early stages.
This paper reviews recent advancements in the use of numerical methods for predicting fatigue failure and damage in tyre design.
Given the limited research on numerical modelling for fatigue and fracture, there is a need for further investigation to develop reliable simulations for predicting tyre behaviour under fatigue loads.
This review summarises the current applications of numerical fatigue modelling, providing engineers with a systematic overview of the literature, highlighting key achievements, and promoting further development in the field.
The paper begins by discussing tyre components, followed by an exploration of material modelling techniques.
It then addresses numerical modelling strategies for full-scale tyres under real-life loading conditions.
Challenges in predicting fatigue failure using finite element (FE) modelling are examined, along with the issue of potential damage accumulation.
Finally, the paper outlines recommendations for future research on FE modelling techniques, offering insights into current approaches and encouraging further investigation in the field.
This paper studies the microstructure and mechanical properties of MIG (Melt Inert Gas) lap welded 6005 aluminum alloy plates.
Microstructure analysis (OM) of the joint showed that 15~30 μm small grains were observed at the fusion line.
Mechanical analysis shows that the small grains are broken by shielding gas and molten pool flow force.
Hardness test shows that there is a softening zone (41~43 HV) in HAZ much lower than BM and WZ.
The low cycle fatigue test showed that the performance of lap joint decreased sharply, and the fatigue strength of weld decreased significantly, which was only 27.34% of the base metal. The fatigue fracture (SEM) of the weld observed slip band cracking and a large number of brittle fracture characteristics.
Using the stress concentration factor Kt for analysis, it was found that the cause of brittle fracture was mostly stress concentration.
Lap joint stress concentration model appears in two ways: firstly, at the weld toe, the weld is subjected to eccentric force, secondly, there is a small gap between the two plates at the weld root, which cracks along the direction of 45° of the maximum shear stress.
It has already been shown that in fatigue tests in vitro human cortical bone accumulates damage in the form of microcracks and that the total number of microcracks generated prior to the creation of the fatal macrocrack, and their effect (softening) on the material properties, depends on the level of applied stress.
At each stress level the amount of accumulated damage has also been shown to be a non-linear function of the cycle number (Zioupos et al., 1996a, b; Pattin et al., 1996).
The theoretical implications of the previous findings and two possible models for cumulative damage were put to the test here by performing tensile fatigue tests in two-step level (high/low or low/high) loading on human cortical bone specimens.
The results indicate that the accumulation of damage in-vitro is highly dependent on the level of stress and the stress history.
Usual linear expressions for fatigue lifetime predictions, like the Palmgren-Miner rule, substantially over or underestimate the outcome depending on whether the stress was applied in a high/low or a low/high sequence, respectively.
In view of these discrepancies we conclude that predicting the fatigue lifetime of any bone in vivo under variable loading and complex history regimes is an extremely difficult task to which the study of accumulation of damage can offer a significant but, perhaps, still limited contribution.
Most of machine parts, artificial joints and their components used for human body contain fillets, which connects two different diameters or widths.
These fillets may cause a failure for these components.
So, in this paper an optimisation method is presented which calculates and predicts optimal shape of the longitudinal profile for transition length of a tension bar, which connects two different diameters, using the ANSYS program.
This method is applied to maximise the crack initiation time by minimising the fatigue notch factor Kf.
A specified program has been developed to calculate the fatigue notch factor using Ansys Parametric Design Language (APDL) which is associated to the ANSYS Package.
It was observed that the maximisation of crack initiation time with higher value of the statistical parameter, k, is also a minimisation of stress concentration factor, kt, at the same time.A tension bar with four different transition length, t (t/d=0.333, 0.4167, 0.5 and 0.583) is considered.
The crack initiation time of the optimal shape for all cases was increased by 17%, 12%, 9% and 7%, respectively.
The stress concentration factor was reduced by 20%, 17%, 15% and 12.5%, respectively.
Ultra-High Toughness Cementitious Composite (UHTCC) represents a composite material meticulously engineered on the foundation of micromechanical principles.
The multi-crack cracking and strain-hardening characteristics of UHTCC enable it to be applied to orthotropic steel decks to control the crack width.
Different from most studies which only focus on hybrid fiber or fatigue characteristics, this paper studies the influence of hybrid fiber content on static mechanical properties, flexural toughness, and flexural fatigue characteristics of UHTCC under different stress levels.
The compressive and flexural strength, bending toughness, and fatigue damage of UHTCC under different fiber ratios were compared, and the fatigue properties of hybrid fiber UHTCC were verified.
The results reveal that hybrid fiber exerts a more pronounced effect on toughness, augmenting the maximum folding ratio by 23.7%.
Single-doped steel fiber UHTCC exhibits a characteristic strain-softening phenomenon attributable to inadequate fiber content, whereas the bending toughness index of hybrid fiber UHTCC surpasses that of SF1.5P0 by 18.6%.
Under low-stress conditions, UHTCC demonstrates a nearly threefold increase in bending fatigue life with a mere 1% steel fiber content, while the influence of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) fiber on fatigue life is more significant: with an increase of only 1/5 volume content, the fatigue life increased by 29.8%, reaching a maximum increase of 43.2% at 1/4 volume content.
Furthermore, the fatigue damage accumulation curve of UHTCC follows a three-stage inverted S-shaped trajectory.
The inclusion of PVA fiber facilitates early initiation of stable cracking during the fatigue failure process, thereby advancing the entire strain stability development stage and mitigating external load forces through the proliferation of micro-cracks.
Consequently, compared to SF1P0, the ε
To examine the topographic features of the fracture surface of a NiTi instrument after fatigue failure, and to correlate the measurements of some features with the cyclic load.
A total of 212 ProFile rotary instruments were subjected to a rotational-bending test at various curvatures until broken.
The fracture surface of all fragments was examined by SEM to identify the crack origins.
The crack radius, i.e. extent of the fatigue-crack growth towards the centroid of the cross-section, was also measured, and correlated with the strain amplitude for each instrument.
All fracture surfaces revealed the presence of one or more crack origins, a region occupied by microscopic striations, and an area with microscopic dimples.
The number of specimens showing multiple crack origins was significantly greater in the group fatigued under water than in air (P < 0.05).
A linear relationship between the reciprocal of the square root of the crack radius and the strain amplitude was discernible (P < 0.001), the slopes of which were not significantly different for instruments fatigued in air and water.
The fractographic appearance of NiTi engine-files that had failed because of fatigue is typical of that for other metals.
The fatigue behaviour of NiTi instruments is adversely affected by water, not only for the low-cycle fatigue life, but also the number of crack origins.
There appears to be a critical extent of crack propagation for various strain amplitudes leading to final rupture (akin to the Griffith's criterion for brittle materials).
The wear of polyethylene components of total hip replacements has previously been studied radiographically and by analysis of retrieved components.
The extent of wear, however, has largely been determined from components retrieved at reoperation and has therefore been based on a subset of patients in whom the prosthesis is more likely to show excessive wear.
The study of cups retrieved post mortem provides a better indication of the extent of wear of well functioning components.
Twenty-six polyethylene liners were retrieved at autopsy from nineteen patients, after a mean of ninety-one months (range, thirty-three to 206 months) in situ.
Each component had articulated with a thirty-two-millimeter-diameter femoral head.
The components were evaluated visually for evidence of polyethylene wear such as pitting, scratching, and burnishing.
Additionally; a shadowgraph technique was used to examine molds of the inner surface of the liner to determine the direction and extent of wear.
The mean extent of linear wear of the retrieved liners was 0.45 millimeter (range, 0.17 to 1.07 millimeters), and the mean rate of wear was 0.07 millimeter (range, 0.02 to 0.18 millimeter) per year.
The mean volumetric wear was 245.3 cubic millimeters (range, 13.0 to 779.1 cubic millimeters), and the mean rate of volumetric wear was 39.8 cubic millimeters (range, 1.0 to 131.3 cubic millimeters) per year.
The mean rate of wear for the twenty-six liners was 45 to 69 per cent less than the rates reported in the literature for polyethylene liners retrieved at reoperation.
Examination of the articulating surface did not reveal gross evidence of surface failure such as delamination or fatigue cracks.
In general, the surfaces were merely burnished and scratched.
The rates of wear of press-fit, metal-backed liners were significantly higher than those of all-polyethylene cemented components (p < 0.05).
Additionally, statistical analysis revealed no correlation between wear and the patient's age, weight, or gender; the duration of implantation; or the thickness of the polyethylene.
These results indicate that wear of the polyethylene of well functioning hip replacements is not as excessive as reported previously.
Severe shot peening (SSP) was used on additive manufactured 316L by laser powder bed fusion.
The effect of the post processing on the surface features of the material was analyzed through residual stress measurements, tensile testing, hardness-depth profiles, and fatigue testing by flexural bending.
The results showed that SSP can be utilized to form residual stresses up to -400 MPa 200 μm below the surface.
At the same time, a clear improvement on the surface hardness was achieved from 275 HV to near 650 HV.
These together resulted in a clear improvement on material strength which was recorded at 10% improvement in ultimate tensile strength.
Most significantly, the fatigue limit of the material was tripled from 200 MPa to over 600 MPa and the overall fatigue strength raised similarly from a low to high cycle regime.
A non-linear modification to Miner's rule for damage accumulation is proposed to reduce the scatter between experimental fatigue life and fatigue life predicted according to the original Miner's sum.
Based on P-s-n probability distribution and design s-n curves, the modification satisfies the assumption of equality between the mean damage degree (at the critical level) and fatigue life random variables, which is not covered in the original formulation.
The adopted formulation shows the discrepancies between the fatigue lives predicted according to the design s-n curves and the estimated probability distribution.
It also proves that it is inappropriate to apply a normal distribution to fatigue life analysis and that the model becomes non-linear only for non-normal distributions.
The predictions according to the established model were compared to the predictions obtained with Miner's rule.
With an increasing demand for adhesives, the durability of joints has become highly important.
The fatigue resistance of adhesives has been investigated mainly for epoxies, but in recent years many other resins have been adopted for structural adhesives.
Therefore, understanding the fatigue characteristics of these resins is also important.
In this study, the cyclic fatigue behavior of a two-part acrylic-based adhesive used for structural bonding was investigated using a fracture-mechanics approach.
Fatigue tests for mode I loading were conducted under displacement control using double cantilever beam specimens with varying bond-line thicknesses.
When the fatigue crack growth rate per cycle,
The influence of load ratio on the high and very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) strength of Ck45M steel processed by thermomechanical rolling integrated direct quenching was investigated.
Ultrasonic fatigue tests were performed under uniaxial and torsional loading at load ratios of
This article integrates engineering principles with skeletal biology to describe skeletal strength homeostasis.
Skeletal strength revolves around its perceived mechanical usage.
Mass, geometric properties, and fatigue damage burden are the principle determinants of structural strength.
Bone cells form sensor and effector systems that monitor usage and adjust strength and stiffness by changing mass, geometric properties, and fatigue damage burden.
The bone lining cell-osteocyte complex is the sensor; the bone modeling and remodeling systems are the effectors.
Deformation and fatigue damage in bone are the signals received by the sensor.
Accumulated energy in the sensor's cytoskeleton determines the rate at which the sensor sends messages to the effectors.
The activity of both effector systems is proportional to the rate of incoming messages.
Modeling raises bone strength and stiffness by improving geometric properties as it adds bone where customary deformation is greatest.
Remodeling improves bone strength by replacing fatigue-damaged areas without mass changes.
Bone removed during modeling and remodeling comes from sites where the impact on bone strength and stiffness is least.
Hormones and agents alter the rigidity of the cytoskeleton and, thus, its capacity to deform and store energy.
Osteopenic agents make it more rigid, causing detection of fewer deformations and transmission of fewer loading signals to the effector.
Osteotropic agents decrease the rigidity of the cytoskeleton, causing detection of more strain events and transmission of more loading signals to the effector.
Agent treatment thus establishes false conditions of disuse or hyperuse.
Navigable waterways play a vital role in the efficient transportation of millions of tons of cargo annually.
Inland traffic must pass through a lock, which consists of miter gates.
Failures and closures of these gates can significantly disrupt waterborne commerce.
Miter gates often experience fatigue cracking due to their loading and welded connections.
Repairing every crack can lead to excessive miter gate downtime and serious economic impacts.
However, if the rate of crack growth is shown to be sufficiently slow, e.g., using Paris' law, immediate repairs may be deemed unnecessary, and this downtime can be avoided.
Paris' law is often obtained from laboratory testing with detailed crack measurements of specimens with relatively simple geometry.
However, Paris' law parameters for an in situ structure will likely deviate from those predicted from physical testing due to variations in loading and materials and a far more complicated geometry.
To improve Paris' law parameter prediction, this research proposes a framework that utilizes (1) convenient vision-based tracking of crack evolution both in the laboratory and the field and (2) numerical model estimation of stress intensity factors (SIFs).
This study's methodology provides an efficient tool for Paris' law parameter prediction that can be updated as more data become available through vision-based monitoring and provide actionable information about the criticality of existing cracks.
Quench-polish-quench (QPQ) nitro-carburizing of AISI 4140 steel in a salt bath was performed in this study.
Nitro-carburizing in a salt bath enhanced the formation of Fe-nitride on the outer surface layer.
Moreover, the oxidizing treatment formed a thin oxide layer decorated on the outermost part of the QPQ-treated sample.
The dense compound layer formed after nitro-carburizing in a salt bath consisted of refined granular Fe
Nanostructured metals are a promising class of biomaterials for application in orthopedics to improve the mechanical performance and biological response for increasing the life of biomedical implants.
Surface mechanical attrition treatment (SMAT) is an efficient way of engineering nanocrystalline surfaces on metal substrates.
In this work, 316L stainless steel (SS), a widely used orthopedic biomaterial, was subjected to SMAT to generate a nanocrystalline surface.
Surface nanocrystallization modified the nature of the oxide layer present on the surface.
It increased the corrosion-fatigue strength in saline by 50%.
This increase in strength is attributed to a thicker oxide layer, residual compressive stresses, high strength of the surface layer, and lower propensity for intergranular corrosion in the nanocrystalline layer.
Nanocrystallization also enhanced osteoblast attachment and proliferation.
Intriguingly, wettability and surface roughness, the key parameters widely acknowledged for controlling the cellular response remained unchanged after nanocrystallization.
The observed cellular behavior is explained in terms of the changes in electronic properties of the semiconducting passive oxide film present on the surface of 316L SS.
Nanocrystallization increased the charge carrier density of the n-type oxide film likely preventing denaturation of the adsorbed cell-adhesive proteins such as fibronectin.
In addition, a net positive charge developed on the otherwise neutral oxide layer, which is known to facilitate cellular adhesion.
The role of changes in the electronic properties of the oxide films on metal substrates is thus highlighted in this work.
This study demonstrates the advantages of nanocrystalline surface modification by SMAT for processing metallic biomaterials used in orthopedic implants.
A porous metal coating applied to a solid substrate implant has been shown, in vivo, to offer advantages over current polymethylmethacrylate cement fixation in orthopedic devices.
These advantages may be lost, however, in devices requiring a sintering heat treatment to apply the coating since these treatments may have a detrimental effect on the substrate material mechanical properties.
In addition, more biocompatible interface coating materials have come of interest with recent literature reports of metal ion release.
These coatings may be of particular use in porous-coated systems since the surface area of implant in contact with the surrounding tissues is greatly increased.
This study investigated the effects that both a porous Ti- 6Al -4V alloy coating and a ULTI carbon coating have on the fatigue properties of a Ti- 6Al -4V alloy substrate system.
The fatigue properties of uncoated as-received, uncoated sinter heat treated and notched Ti- 6Al -4V material were also investigated.
The results of this study revealed endurance limits for Ti- 6Al -4V alloy tested with a rotating beam system of 617 MN/m2 (uncoated as-received), 624 MN/m2 ( ULTI carbon-coated), 377 MN/m2 ( sinter heat treated), 220 MN/m2 (notched) and 138 MN/m2 (porous-coated).
No effects on fatigue properties were observed when testing the material in saline compared with air.
The slight increase in fatigue strength for the carbon-coated material is thought to be due to the increase in surface hardness resulting from the formation of titanium carbides on the surface.
The low-endurance limit of the porous-coated material is due to both the transition from the as-received equiaxed microstructure to a lamellar microstructure upon sintering and to the notch effect created by the porous coating.
This study was designed to test the null hypothesis that there were no significant differences between size 25 files F360, F6 SkyTaper, Hyflex EDM, iRace, Neoniti, One Shape Protaper Next, Reciproc, Revo-S and Wave One Gold in terms of resistance to cyclic fatigue and length of broken fragments. 300 new size 25 files of the systems studied were selected (n=30).
The instruments were mechanized with a X-Smart Plus endo motor at the speed and torque recommended by the manufacturer, holding the instruments steady with a clamping mechanism, with passive adjustment and without pressure in a stainless-steel block.
The time was calculated in seconds until fracture.
The number of fatigue cycles was calculated as (Resistance (s) x Speed)/60.
The separated fragment lengths were measured with a digital Vernier calliper.
A statistical analysis was performed with the SPSS 18 programme at a 95% confidence level, using the Levene´s Test to compare variances, the Welch's Test to compare means, and the Games-Howell´s Test to reveal differences between groups.
The Levene's Test showed no equal variances (P<0.05).
The Welch's Test (P<0.05) showed significant differences in cyclic fatigue and separated fragment lengths.
The Games-Howell test (P<0.05) exhibited significant differences in multiple comparisons, (P<0.05).
The systems with CM-Wire (Hyflex EDM and Neoniti) were superior in resistance to the other systems for cyclic fatigue.
For separated fragment lengths, F360 (conventional NiTi) and Reciproc (M-Wire) were better significantly better in terms of resistance.
Fatigue-induced failure resulting from repetitive stress-strain cycles is a critical concern in the development of robust and durable nanoelectromechanical devices founded on 2D semiconductors.
Defects, such as vacancies and grain boundaries, inherent in scalable materials can act as stress concentrators and accelerate fatigue fracture.
Surgical implants are exposed to severe working conditions and therefore a wide range of failure mechanisms may occur, including fatigue, corrosion, wear, fretting and combinations of them.
The mechanical failures of metallic implants may also be influenced by several other factors, including the design, material, manufacturing, installation, postoperative complications and misuse.
An 83-year-old patient suffered an oblique femoral shaft fracture due to a fall at home.
A stainless steel locking compression plate (LCP) employed in the fracture reduction failed after four months and was sent back to the producer.
A second LCP of the same type was implanted and also failed after six months.
A failure analysis of the second femoral LCP is performed in this paper.
The results demonstrate that poor material quality was decisive to the failure.
The chemical analysis revealed a high P content in the steel, which is not in accordance to the standards.
A combination of factors lead to LCP fracture and these include: brittle crack initiation due to phosphorus, segregation at grain boundaries, crack propagation due to cyclic loading and final fast fracture favored by the loss of ductility due to cold work.
During fatigue loading of whole bone, damage to bone tissue accumulates, coalesces and leads to fractures.
Whether damage affects tissue material properties similarly at the nanoscale (less than 1 μm), microscale (less than 1 mm), and whole bone scale has not been fully evaluated.
Therefore, in this study, we examine scale-dependent loss of calcified tissue material properties in rat ulnae, after fatigue loading of rat forearms using the forearm compression model.
In vivo fatigue loading was conducted on the right forearms until a displacement end-point was reached.
The non-fatigued left forearms served as contralateral controls.
Subsequently, three-point bending tests to failure on excised ulnae demonstrated a 41% and 49% reduction in the stiffness and ultimate strength as compared to contralateral control ulnae, respectively.
Depth-sensing microindentation demonstrated an average decrease in material properties, such as elastic modulus and hardness, of 28% and 29% respectively.
Nanoindentation measured elastic modulus and hardness were reduced by 26% and 29% in damaged bone relative to contralateral controls, respectively.
The increased loss of whole bone material properties compared to tissue material properties measured using indentation is mainly attributed to the presence of a macrocrack located in the medial compressive region at the site of peak strains.
The similar magnitude of changes in material properties by microindentation and nanoindentation is attributed to damage that may originate at an even smaller scale, as inferred from 10% differences in connectivity of osteocyte canaliculi in damaged bone.
Masticatory function challenges the strength and adaptive capability of supporting bone.
When osseous tissue is loaded, it accumulates fatigue damage which must be repaired by bone modeling and remodeling.
The three principal masticatory abutments (normal teeth, ankylosed teeth and osseointegrated implants) are a dynamic physiologic continuum relative to bone biomechanics.
Implants are rigidly integrated units that can only be moved by fracturing the interface.
Normal teeth and some ankylosed teeth can be moved using implants for orthodontic and orthopedic anchorage.
Because orthodontic translation generates new bone and attached gingiva, it is a form of tissue engineering.
Modern interdisciplinary practice requires a thorough knowledge of the principles of bone physiology and biomechanics.
Laser shock peening (LSP) is a promising surface strengthening technology to improve the fatigue life of alloy components.
In this work, the residual stress field of Ti-6Al-4V titanium alloy induced by LSP was simulated based on finite element method (FEM), and then the fatigue lives of the non-LSP and LSP-treated specimens subjected to four-point bending were predicted using the software Fe-safe.
The simulation results were compared and validated with the corresponding experimental results.
LSP treatment produces a maximum compressive residual stress (CRS) of up to 800 MPa on the surface of the specimen and a CRS layer with a thickness of 0.623 mm under the upper surface of the specimen.
The existence of the CRS layer reduces the maximum principal stress from 608 MPa to 540 MPa and changes its location from the upper surface into the internal position at a depth of about 0.6 mm during the four-point bending process.
This results in experimental and predicted fatigue lives 4.2 and 17.24 times longer for the specimens with LSP pretreatment compared to those without LSP.
Stem modularity of revision hip implant systems offers the advantage of the restoration of individual patient geometry but introduces additional interfaces, which are subjected to repetitive bending loading and have a propensity for fretting corrosion.
The male stem taper is the weakest part of the modular junction due to its reduced cross section compared to the outside diameter of the stem.
Taper fractures can be the consequence of overloading in combination with corrosion.
The purpose of this study was to assess the influence of implant design factors, patient factors, and surgical factors on the risk of taper failure of the modular junction of revision stems.
An analytical bending model was used to estimate the strength of the taper connection for pristine, fatigued and corroded conditions.
Additionally, a finite element contact model of the taper connection was developed to assess the relative motion and potential for surface damage at the taper interface under physiological loading for varyied assembly and design parameters.
Increasing the male taper diameter was shown to be the most effective means for increasing taper strength but would require a concurrent increase in the outer implant diameter to limit a greater risk of total surface damage for a thinner female taper wall.
Increasing the assembly force decreases the total surface damage but not local magnitudes, which are probably responsible for crack initiation.
It is suggested that in unfavourable loading conditions a monobloc implant system will reduce the risk of failure.
Many established, but also potential future applications of NiTi-based shape memory alloys (SMA) in biomedical devices and solid-state refrigeration require long fatigue life with 10
This investigation presents the results of research on low cycle fatigue properties of Sc-modified AA2519-T62 extrusion.
The basic mechanical properties of the investigated alloy have been established in the tensile test.
The low cycle fatigue testing has been performed on five different levels of total strain amplitude: 0.4%; 0.5%; 0.6%; 0.7% and 0.8% with cycle asymmetry coefficient R = 0.1.
For each level of total strain amplitude, the graphs of variations in stress amplitude and plastic strain amplitude in the number of cycles have been presented.
The obtained results allowed to establish Ramberg-Osgood and Manson-Coffin-Basquin relationships.
The established values of the cyclic strength coefficient and cyclic strain hardening exponent equal to k' = 1518.1 MPa and n' = 0.1702.
Based on the Manscon-Coffin-Basquin equation, the values of the following parameters have been established: the fatigue strength coefficient σ'
This paper describes an application of a machine learning approach for parameter optimization.
The method is demonstrated for the elasto-viscoplastic model with both isotropic and kinematic hardening.
It is shown that the proposed method based on long short-term memory networks allowed a reasonable agreement of stress-strain curves to be obtained for cyclic deformation in a low-cycle fatigue regime.
The main advantage of the proposed approach over traditional optimization schemes lies in the possibility of obtaining parameters for a new material without the necessity of conducting any further optimizations.
As the power and robustness of the developed method was demonstrated for very challenging problems (cyclic deformation, crystal plasticity, self-consistent model and isotropic and kinematic hardening), it is directly applicable to other experiments and models.
Fatigue cracks are a major defect in metal alloys, and specifically, their study poses defect evaluation challenges in aluminum aircraft alloys.
Existing inline inspection tools exhibit measurement uncertainties.
The physical-based methods for crack growth prediction utilize stress analysis models and the crack growth model governed by Paris' law.
These models, when utilized for long-term crack growth prediction, yield sub-optimum solutions and pose several technical limitations to the prediction problems.
The metaheuristic optimization algorithms in this study have been conducted in accordance with neural networks to accurately forecast the crack growth rates in aluminum alloys.
Through experimental data, the performance of the hybrid metaheuristic optimization-neural networks has been tested.
A dynamic Levy flight function has been incorporated with a chimp optimization algorithm to accurately train the deep neural network.
The performance of the proposed predictive model has been tested using 7055 T7511 and 6013 T651 alloys against four competing techniques.
Results show the proposed predictive model achieves lower correlation error, least relative error, mean absolute error, and root mean square error values while shortening the run time by 11.28%.
It is evident through experimental study and statistical analysis that the crack length and growth rates are predicted with high fidelity and very high resolution.
Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) is characterized by persistent symptoms such as fatigue, respiratory complications and cognitive dysfunction, affecting approximately 13.5% of SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals.
Despite its clinical significance, the mechanisms driving PASC remain poorly understood.
Here, to address this, we utilized a Phodopus roborovskii hamster model to investigate the long-term effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with influenza A virus.
While 46.25-47.50% of hamsters survived SARS-CoV-2 or influenza A virus H1N1 infection, 13.75% of SARS-CoV-2 survivors exhibited impaired weight recovery, severe lung pathology and significant neutrophil accumulation, defining the PASC group.
Single-cell RNA sequencing of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, lung and spleen at 30 days post-infection revealed hallmark PASC gene signatures uniquely upregulated in the PASC group.
This was accompanied by elevated neutrophil levels and reduced macrophage populations, indicative of disrupted myeloid cell differentiation.
Immunohistochemistry further detected persistent SARS-CoV-2 S1 subunit antigen in the lungs of PASC hamsters at 30 days post-infection, coinciding with marked neutrophil infiltration, which probably drove prolonged inflammatory responses.
Indeed, the neutrophils in the PASC group exhibited sustained upregulation of inflammation-related genes, including FPR2, MMP9 and S100A9, which are associated with neutrophil degranulation and extracellular trap formation.
Importantly, targeting neutrophil-mediated inflammation with small-molecule inhibitors substantially reduced PASC phenotypes.
Among these, Sivelestat, a neutrophil elastase inhibitor, demonstrated the most pronounced efficacy, reducing PASC incidence and mortality, and markedly reducing neutrophil levels.
These findings underscore the critical role of neutrophil activation in driving lung damage and chronic inflammation during PASC, offering promising therapeutic strategies for mitigating long-term COVID-19 sequelae.
Combined high and low cycle fatigue (CCF) generally induces the failure of aircraft gas turbine attachments.
Based on the aero-engine load spectrum, accurate assessment of fatigue damage due to the interaction of high cycle fatigue (HCF) resulting from high frequency vibrations and low cycle fatigue (LCF) from ground-air-ground engine cycles is of critical importance for ensuring structural integrity of engine components, like turbine blades.
In this paper, the influence of combined damage accumulation on the expected CCF life are investigated for turbine blades.
The CCF behavior of a turbine blade is usually studied by testing with four load-controlled parameters, including high cycle stress amplitude and frequency, and low cycle stress amplitude and frequency.
According to this, a new damage accumulation model is proposed based on Miner's rule to consider the coupled damage due to HCF-LCF interaction by introducing the four load parameters.
Five experimental datasets of turbine blade alloys and turbine blades were introduced for model validation and comparison between the proposed Miner, Manson-Halford, and Trufyakov-Kovalchuk models.
Results show that the proposed model provides more accurate predictions than others with lower mean and standard deviation values of model prediction errors.
Commercial purity titanium (cp-Ti) is considered for replacing Ti64 as an implant material in various applications, due to the potential toxicity associated with the release of Al and V ions.
However, the mechanical properties of cp-Ti, particularly fatigue resistance, are inadequate for this purpose.
In this study, cp-Ti grade 4 rods were processed using a combination of equal channel angular pressing and rotary swaging (ECAP/RS).
Tensile and fatigue tests were conducted, along with detailed microscopy and evaluation of corrosion resistance and biocompatibility.
An average yield strength of 1383 MPa was obtained while maintaining moderate ductility of 10 %.
This represents the highest strength ever recorded for cp-Ti, even exceeding that of Ti64.
Additionally, fatigue endurance limit increased by 43 % up to 600 MPa, almost obtaining that of Ti64.
Strengthening mechanisms were attributed to the ultrafine-grained (UFG) microstructure generated by ECAP/RS, along with strong crystallographic texture and formation of sub-grain structure.
Furthermore, the corrosion resistance and biocompatibility of cp-Ti were largely unaffected, potentially easing regulatory transition in future medical devices.
Thus, these results demonstrate high potential of combined ECAP/RS processing to manufacture UFG cp-Ti grade 4 materials that prospectively allow for the substitution of questionable alloys and downsizing of medical implants.
A mechanics-based brain damage framework is used to model the abnormal accumulation of hyperphosphorylated p-tau associated with chronic traumatic encephalopathy within the brains of deceased National Football League (NFL) players studied at Boston University and to provide a framework for understanding the damage mechanisms. p-tau damage is formulated as the multiplicative decomposition of three independently evolving damage internal state variables (ISVs): nucleation related to number density, growth related to the average area, and coalescence related to the nearest neighbor distance.
The ISVs evolve under different rates for three well known mechanical boundary conditions, which in themselves introduce three different rates making a total of nine scenarios, that we postulate are related to brain damage progression: (1) monotonic overloads, (2) cyclic fatigue which corresponds to repetitive impacts, and (3) creep which is correlated to damage accumulation over time.
Different NFL player positions are described to capture the different types of damage progression.
Skill position players, such as quarterbacks, are expected to exhibit a greater p-tau protein accumulation during low cycle fatigue (higher amplitude impacts with a lesser number), and linemen who exhibit a greater p-tau protein accumulation during high cycle fatigue (lower amplitude impacts with a greater number of impacts).
This mechanics-based damage framework presents a foundation for developing a multiscale model for traumatic brain injury that combines mechanics with biology.
From the perspective of damage mechanics, the damage parameters were introduced as the characterizing quantity of the decrease in the mechanical properties of powder superalloy material FGH96 under fatigue loading.
By deriving a damage evolution equation, a fatigue life prediction model of powder superalloy containing inclusions was constructed based on damage mechanics.
The specimens containing elliptical subsurface inclusions and semielliptical surface inclusions were considered.
The CONTA172 and TARGE169 elements of finite element software (ANSYS) were used to simulate the interfacial debonding between the inclusions and matrix, and the interface crack initiation life was calculated.
Through finite element modeling, the stress field evolution during the interface debonding was traced by simulation.
Finally, the effect of the position and shape size of inclusions on interface debonding was explored.
Notch sensitivity may compromise titanium-alloy plate fatigue strength.
However, no studies providing head-to-head comparisons of stainless-steel or titanium-alloy locking plates exist.
Custom-designed identically structured locking plates were made from stainless steel (F138 and F1314) or titanium alloy.
Three screw-hole designs were compared: threaded screw-holes with angle edges (type I); threaded screw-holes with chamfered edges (type II); and non-threaded screw-holes with chamfered edges (type III).
The plates' bending stiffness, bending strength, and fatigue life, were investigated.
The stress concentration at the screw threads was assessed using finite element analyses (FEA).
The titanium plates had higher bending strength than the F1314 and F138 plates (2.95:1.56:1) in static loading tests.
For all metals, the type-III plate fatigue life was highest, followed by type-II and type-I.
The type-III titanium plates had longer fatigue lives than their F138 counterparts, but the type-I and type-II titanium plates had significantly shorter fatigue lives.
All F1314 plate types had longer fatigue lives than the type-III titanium plates.
The FEA showed minimal stress difference (0.4%) between types II and III, but the stress for types II and III was lower (11.9% and 12.4%) than that for type I.
The screw threads did not cause stress concentration in the locking plates in FEA, but may have jeopardized the fatigue strength, especially in the notch-sensitive titanium plates.
Improvement to the locking plate design is necessary.
To understand the resistance to cyclic and static contact loading of feldspathic porcelain on dental zirconia (3Y-TZP), in order to understand the partial failure of porcelain (chipping or cracking).
Hertzian contact techniques were used to evaluate the appearance of damage as a ring crack in terms of applied load and number of cycles in air and simulated saliva.
Static contact loading showed the presence of stress corrosion cracking in the porcelain; the environmental crack growth in air was determined from the results of time to damage under static load.
There was also a contribution of fatigue effects due to the interactions of the crack with the microstructure.
From the obtained results, a time to failure was estimated depending on the material counterpart.
Cracking can occur on porcelain coatings if the contact counterpart is teeth or porcelain in a time interval of a few years, consistent with clinical studies.
Contact loading, particularly against teeth or other ceramic materials can be a significant cause of failure and chipping of feldspathic porcelain on zirconia, especially if the patient suffers from bruxism.
Protection, by e.g. a guard, against repetitive contact against the porcelain can increase the lifetime of the veneer.
In cold regions, asphalt pavements undergo severe deterioration driven by the synergistic effects of thermal contraction and dynamic heavy loading, resulting in premature failures such as thermal cracking and rutting.
This study presents a comprehensive thermo-mechanical coupling analysis to address this critical issue.
A sophisticated seven-degree-of-freedom (7-DOF) vehicle model was developed to simulate realistic dynamic loads, with load magnitudes quantified via MATLAB simulations.
A three-dimensional (3D) finite element (FE) model was established, incorporating temperature-dependent material properties and transient heat transfer analysis to replicate a typical winter cooling event in Jilin Province, China.
The results quantified key responses: a maximum surface thermal stress of 8.01 MPa, a vertical compressive stress of 0.86 MPa beneath the wheel load, and a detrimental tensile strain of 90.16 με at the asphalt layer base.
Shear stress concentrations of up to 0.16 MPa were observed, accelerating shear-induced damage.
A critical finding was the stress reversal (compression to tension) at the bottom of asphalt layers under moving load, a phenomenon crucial for fatigue assessment but often overlooked in static analysis.
The study conclusively shows that low temperatures exacerbate stress accumulation and fatigue damage under heavy traffic, providing critical insights for designing durable pavement structures in cold regions.
Sleep is beneficial for physical and mental health.
Several mobile and wearable sleep-tracking devices have been developed, and personalized sleep feedback is the most common functionality among these devices.
To date, no study has implemented an objective push-type feedback message and investigated the characteristics of habitual sleep behavior and diurnal symptoms when receiving sleep feedback.
We conducted a mobile health intervention trial to examine whether sending objective push-type sleep feedback changes the self-reported mood, physical symptoms, and sleep behavior of Japanese office workers.
In total, 31 office workers (mean age 42.3, SD 7.9 years; male-to-female ratio 21:10) participated in a 2-arm intervention trial from November 30 to December 19, 2020.
The participants were instructed to indicate their momentary mood and physical symptoms (depressive mood, anxiety, stress, sleepiness, fatigue, and neck and shoulder stiffness) 5 times a day using a smartphone app.
In addition, daily work performance was rated once a day after work.
They were randomly assigned to either a feedback or control group, wherein they did or did not receive messages about their sleep status on the app every morning, respectively.
All participants wore activity monitors on their nondominant wrists, through which objective sleep data were registered on the web on a server.
On the basis of the estimated sleep data on the server, personalized sleep feedback messages were generated and sent to the participants in the feedback group using the app.
These processes were fully automated.
Using hierarchical statistical models, we examined the differences in the statistical properties of sleep variables (sleep duration and midpoint of sleep) and daily work performance over the trial period.
Group differences in the diurnal slopes for mood and physical symptoms were examined using a linear mixed effect model.
We found a significant group difference among within-individual residuals at the midpoint of sleep (expected a posteriori for the difference: -15, 95% credible interval -26 to -4 min), suggesting more stable sleep timing in the feedback group.
However, there were no significant group differences in daily work performance.
We also found significant group differences in the diurnal slopes for sleepiness (P<.001), fatigue (P=.002), and neck and shoulder stiffness (P<.001), which was largely due to better scores in the feedback group at wake-up time relative to those in the control group.
This is the first mobile health study to demonstrate that objective push-type sleep feedback improves sleep timing of and physical symptoms in healthy office workers.
Future research should incorporate specific behavioral instructions intended to improve sleep habits and examine the effectiveness of these instructions.
In this work, the sensitivity zone of microstructure and temperature for precipitation-strengthened nickel-based superalloys, used for turbine applications in aero-engines, has been firstly established.
Heat treatment experiments with different solution temperatures were carried out.
The microstructure evolution and creep residual strain sensitivity, low cycle fatigue properties, and tensile properties are analyzed, and the essential reason for the fluctuation of the mechanical properties of nickel-based superalloys was revealed.
The main results obtained are as follows: following subsolvus solution heat treatment with a temperature of 1020 °C, samples have a high primary γ'
The rising demand for aluminium and environmental concerns highlight the need for a circular economy using recycled alloys.
This study examines the effect of shot peening on the high-cycle fatigue life of secondary AlZn10Si8Mg alloys with different iron contents: Alloy A (0.14 wt.% Fe) and Alloy B (0.56 wt.% Fe).
Although both alloys showed similar tensile properties, Alloy B had higher porosity and finer β-Al
Torsional whole-life transformation ratchetting is investigated under pure-torsional and non-proportional multiaxial loadings of NiTi SMA micro-tubes at human-body temperature (310 K), where three paths of torsional loadings and five paths of multiaxial ones are considered.
It is observed that the evolution of the torsional whole-life transformation ratchetting depends strongly on the loading paths and stress levels, and the fatigue lives of pure-torsional loadings decrease faster than that of uniaxial and multiaxial ones with the increase of peak stress.
Based on the experimental investigations, a life-prediction model which depends on the applied stress levels is proposed for NiTi SMA micro-tubes, where the martensite transformation and reorientation of NiTi SMAs are considered.
The predicted fatigue lives under uniaxial, torsional and non-proportional multiaxial loadings are mostly located within the triple error band.
Biomaterials such as protein or polysaccharide gels are known to behave qualitatively as soft solids and to rupture under an external load.
Combining optical and ultrasonic imaging to shear rheology we show that the failure scenario of a protein gel is reminiscent of brittle solids: after a primary creep regime characterized by a power-law behavior whose exponent is fully accounted for by linear viscoelasticity, fractures nucleate and grow logarithmically perpendicularly to shear, up to the sudden rupture of the gel.
A single equation accounting for those two successive processes nicely captures the full rheological response.
The failure time follows a decreasing power law with the applied shear stress, similar to the Basquin law of fatigue for solids.
These results are in excellent agreement with recent fiber-bundle models that include damage accumulation on elastic fibers and exemplify protein gels as model, brittlelike soft solids.
Chemical and mechanical degradation play a key role on the lifetime of dental restorative materials.
Therefore, prediction of their long-term performance in the oral environment should base on fatigue, rather than inert strength data, as commonly observed in the dental material's field.
The objective of the present study was to provide mechanistic fatigue parameters of current dental CAD/CAM materials under cyclic biaxial flexure and assess their suitability in predicting clinical fracture behaviors.
Eight CAD/CAM materials, including polycrystalline zirconia (IPS e.max ZirCAD), reinforced glasses (Vitablocs Mark II, IPS Empress CAD), glass-ceramics (IPS e.max CAD, Suprinity PC, Celtra Duo), as well as hybrid materials (Enamic, Lava Ultimate) were evaluated.
Rectangular plates (12×12×1.2mm Susceptibility to subcritical crack growth under cyclic loading was observed for all materials, being more severe (n≤20) in lithium-based glass-ceramics and Vitablocs Mark II.
Strength degradations of 40% up to 60% were predicted after only 1 year of service.
Threshold stress intensity factors (K Fatigue parameters obtained from cyclic loading experiments are more reliable predictors of the mechanical performance of contemporary dental CAD/CAM restoratives than quasi-static mechanical properties.
Muscle fatigue is defined as a decrease in maximal force or power generated in response to contractile activity, and it is a risk factor for the development of musculoskeletal injuries.
One of the many stressors imposed on skeletal muscle through exercise is the increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS), which intensifies as a function of exercise intensity and duration.
Exposure to ROS/RNS can affect Na
The gradient nanostructured (GNS) layer forms beneath the surface of Zr-4 samples by the surface mechanical grinding treatment (SMGT) process, which increases the fatigue strength apparently due to the synergistic effect of the gradient nanostructured layer and compressive residual stress.
The SMGTed Zr-4 samples are subjected to annealing to remove residual stress (A-SMGT) and the individual effect of the GNS layer and compressive residual stress can be clarified.
The results show that the gradient nanostructure in the surface is stable after annealing at 400 °C for 2 h but residual stress is apparently removed.
Both SMGTed and A-SMGTed Zr-4 samples exhibit higher fatigue strength than that of coarse-grained (CG) Zr-4 alloy.
The fatigue fracture of Zr-4 alloy indicates that the hard GNS surface layer hinders fatigue cracks from approaching the surface and leads to a lower fatigue striation space than that of CG Zr-4 samples.
The offset fatigue strength of 10
The longevity of total shoulder replacement is primarily limited by the performance of the ultrahigh-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) glenoid component in vivo.
Variations in glenoid design (conformity, thickness), biomechanics (joint kinematics), and UHMWPE material selection (sterilization, cross-linking) distinguish total shoulder replacements from hip and knee arthroplasty devices.
These variables can lead to severe mechanical failures, including gross fracture.
Sixteen retrieved glenoids with severe fracture were analyzed.
The explant cohort included 3 material groups (gamma-sterilized Hylamer; gamma-sterilized UHMWPE; and gas plasma-sterilized, remelted, highly cross-linked UHMWPE [HXL]) and a range of conformities (0- to 10-mm radial mismatch).
Analysis included fractography (optical and scanning electron microscopy) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy for oxidative analysis.
Fracture primarily occurred along the exterior rim for all 16 explants.
Fourier transform infrared analysis and fractography revealed significant oxidative embrittlement for all gamma-sterilized glenoids.
Fatigue striations and internal flaws were evident on the fracture surface of the HXL glenoid, with little oxidation detected.
Fracture initiated at the external rim of all devices.
Elevated oxidation levels and visible material distortion for representative gamma-sterilized conventional and Hylamer devices suggest oxidative embrittlement as a driving force for crack inception and subsequent fracture.
Brittle fracture of theHXL glenoid resulted from a combination of elevated contact stress due to a nonconforming surface, an internal flaw, and reduced resistance to fatigue crack growth.
This demonstrates that glenoid fracture associated with oxidation has not been eliminated with the advent of modern materials (HXL) in the shoulder domain.
Basic Science Study; Implant Retrieval Study.
In this study a model by novel analytical approach is developed and experimentally verified for shot peening residual stress distribution.
The residual stress field induced by single shot impact is calculated by using Glinka-Molski energy-based method and kinematic hardening model.
The formulation of the compressive residual stress (CRS) distribution is often based on plane strain or plane stress.
It can be determined from the derived relation presented in this paper, the final residual stress in the full coverage conditions is the average of the two strain and stress plane expressions proposed by previous researchers.
The distribution of residual stress is one of the key differences between the profiles produced by the results of the current model.
There is a significant distinction between surface residual stress and maximum CRS, because the CRS profile near the surface is more curved compared to profiles obtained in earlier analytical models.
The experimental data obtained by XRD analysis indicate the correctness and precision of the current model.
Another goal of this study is to increase the fatigue life of GTD-450 stainless steel by shot peening at two different peening intensities.
The fatigue life of samples were obtained by rotary bending test.
Analytical results that confirmed by experimental findings shown bigger maximum compressive residual stresses occurred in higher shot peening intensities.
This incident can improved fatigue life by deeper plastically deformed layer.
The classical nonlinear fatigue cumulative damage model Manson-Halford is widely used in fatigue life analysis and prediction, but this model lacks consideration for the effects of load interaction.
At present, some studies have proposed new correction models to overcome the shortcomings of classical models.
However, the problem with these models is that the parameters are difficult to determine, resulting in a cumbersome application process or the correction process is based only on a single parameter.
Insufficient correction leads to large fluctuations in life prediction errors.
To overcome the above problems, this article proposes a new correction method and establishes a new improved model.
Unlike existing models, the newly improved model is based solely on S-N curve parameters and does not require additional material parameters.
It fully considers the relationship between adjacent loads and the difference in fatigue life under different stress states, and dynamically modifies the classical model based on larger influence weights.
By conducting multi-level fatigue tests on 300M steel, a new improved model was used to accurately predict its remaining fatigue life.
Compared with the classical model, the prediction error was reduced by 11.75 %.
Utilized fatigue test data from various other materials to predict the fatigue life of the improved model under different levels of stress loading.
The results indicate that in the vast majority of cases, the improved model has the highest prediction accuracy among all compared models, with a minimum relative prediction error of only 3.79 % and small fluctuations in prediction error.
Compared with the classical model, the maximum reduction in relative prediction error after model improvement reached 28.73 %, indicating the effectiveness and accuracy of the new improved model.
The expanded use of nickel-titanium (NiTi) rotary instruments in root canal procedures has led to the development of a wide variety of shapes, designs and applications.
Root canal anatomy has not changed, however, and the same challenges exist in both initial treatment and the revision of unacceptable treatment.
These challenges include application with high levels of achievement and low to no levels of adverse effects, such as instrument fracture, root canal wall ledging, dentine wall perforation and so forth.
To that end, many manufacturers have been seeking ways to alter the presently available and wide range of root canal instrument designs, with a focus on altering the surface of the alloy or altering the alloy microstructure with post-machining or post-twisting heat treatment.
This focused review will address the impact that these modifications have had on instrument flexibility, resistance to cyclic fatigue and cutting efficiency.
To better understand the mechanisms of bone stress injuries (BSI) in metatarsals, we developed an algorithm that adapts finite element (FE) models of metatarsals to simulate fatigue displacements through progressive stiffness loss.
Twenty-two human metatarsals were imaged using computed tomography (CT) and then cyclically loaded in uniaxial compression until failure.
CT images were used to generate specimen-specific FE models, and a custom program was developed to iteratively simulate cyclic loading and progressive stiffness loss associated with microdamage accumulation.
Probability was incorporated into microdamage accumulation through a Weibull distribution.
Simulations were able to accurately represent experimental trends in how metatarsal stiffness and displacement changed throughout the mechanical testing.
Simulated displacement at failure was not significantly different from experimentally measured displacement.
Simulated fatigue life, displacement, and rate of stiffness loss were significantly affected by (1) the Weibull scatter variable, m, and (2) the critical strain value, describing whether damage occurred before or after yielding.
These simulations represent a novel alternative method that is significant because it helps us better understand the factors that influence fatigue life and observed mechanical behavior during fatigue testing in whole bones.
Advanced adaptive simulations such as the one described here can be leveraged to reduce the reliance on physical testing, generate and test hypotheses regarding damage accumulation in materials, and eventually, be deployed in predictive algorithms with clinical applications.
Bone adaptation occurs as a response to external loadings and involves bone resorption by osteoclasts followed by the formation of new bone by osteoblasts.
It is directly triggered by the transduction phase by osteocytes embedded within the bone matrix.
The bone remodeling process is governed by the interactions between osteoblasts and osteoclasts through the expression of several autocrine and paracrine factors that control bone cell populations and their relative rate of differentiation and proliferation.
A review of the literature shows that despite the progress in bone remodeling simulation using the finite element (FE) method, there is still a lack of predictive models that explicitly consider the interaction between osteoblasts and osteoclasts combined with the mechanical response of bone.
The current study attempts to develop an FE model to describe the bone remodeling process, taking into consideration the activities of osteoclasts and osteoblasts.
The mechanical behavior of bone is described by taking into account the bone material fatigue damage accumulation and mineralization.
A coupled strain-damage stimulus function is proposed, which controls the level of autocrine and paracrine factors.
The cellular behavior is based on Komarova et al.'s (2003) dynamic law, which describes the autocrine and paracrine interactions between osteoblasts and osteoclasts and computes cell population dynamics and changes in bone mass at a discrete site of bone remodeling.
Therefore, when an external mechanical stress is applied, bone formation and resorption is governed by cells dynamic rather than adaptive elasticity approaches.
The proposed FE model has been implemented in the FE code Abaqus (UMAT routine).
An example of human proximal femur is investigated using the model developed.
The model was able to predict final human proximal femur adaptation similar to the patterns observed in a human proximal femur.
The results obtained reveal complex spatio-temporal bone adaptation.
The proposed FEM model gives insight into how bone cells adapt their architecture to the mechanical and biological environment.
Transition-metal (TM) layered oxides have emerged as the primary cathode choice for sodium-ion batteries (SIBs) due to their high energy density and sustainable chemistry using non-critical elements.
However, their anisotropic lattice strain and stress accumulation during (de)sodiation lead to severe structural degradation, yet an intrinsic strain-depressant approach remains elusive.
Herein, we propose entropy regulation with zero Li/Co usage to mitigate harmful lattice displacements and enhance the electrochemical performance of sodium layered cathodes.
Our findings demonstrate that high entropy design effectively inhibits TMO
To evaluate duloxetine (a serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor) in women with symptoms of overactive bladder (OAB), as it has been shown to increase the bladder capacity in an animal model.
In all, 306 women (aged 21-84 years) were recruited and randomly assigned to placebo (153) or duloxetine (80-mg/day for 4 weeks increased to 120-mg/day for 8 weeks; 153).
Symptoms of OAB were defined as bothersome urinary urgency and/or urge urinary incontinence (UI) for > or =3 months.
Participants were also required to have a mean daytime voiding interval (VI) of < or=2 h and urodynamic observations of either detrusor overactivity (DOA) or urgency which limited bladder capacity to <400 mL, both with no stress UI (SUI).
The primary efficacy analysis compared the treatment effects on mean change from baseline to endpoint in the mean number of voiding episodes (VE)/24 h.
The secondary efficacy analyses compared the treatment effects on the number of UI episodes (IE)/24 h, in the Incontinence Quality of Life questionnaire (I-QOL) score, and on the mean daytime VI.
Safety was assessed with vital signs, adverse event reporting, routine laboratory testing, electrocardiogram, and the measurement of postvoid residual urine volumes (PVR).
Patients randomized to duloxetine had significant improvements over those randomized to placebo for decreases in VE and IE, for increases in the daytime VI, and for improvements in I-QOL scores at both doses of duloxetine.
Urodynamic studies showed no significant increases in maximum cystometric capacity or in the volume threshold for DOA.
The most common treatment-emergent adverse events with duloxetine (nausea, 31%; dry mouth, 16%; dizziness, 14%; constipation, 14%; insomnia, 13%; and fatigue, 11%) were the same as those reported by women with SUI and were significantly more common with duloxetine than placebo.
Laboratory assessments, vital signs and electrocardiograms were stable relative to baseline, with no relevant differences detected between groups.
There was a significant difference in the change in PVR with duloxetine (<5 mL mean increase) but no patient reported hesitancy or retention.
In this trial, duloxetine was better than placebo for treating women with 'wet' and 'dry' symptoms of OAB associated with DOA or a bladder capacity of <400 mL.
In recent decades, friction stir welding has emerged as a significant transformative technique in advanced manufacturing.
In this work, fabricating the friction stir welding of 5 mm thick similar titanium grade 4 plates with varying weight percentages of naturally derived biochar (0, 1, 2, and 3 wt%) to enhance the mechanical properties and wear behavior.
According to the test analysis, the biochar-included FSW samples had better mechanical properties than the plain-welded titanium sample.
The 2 wt% biochar-induced FSW sample gets the best tensile result of 395 MPa, impact strength of 32.02 J, and fatigue result of 183 MPa. Through field emission scanning electron microscopy analysis, biochar was well dispersed throughout the regions and contributing to the grain nucleation.
The bookend surfaces of the tensile fractured specimen were examined by using scanning electron microscopy analysis.
According to micro-hardness and wear resistance test analysis, a 3 wt% biochar sample plays a key role in enhancing the results and getting 107 HV and a specific wear rate of 0.052 mm³/Nm×10
Mechanical preparation and the formation of space for adequate obturation are included in root canal shaping, but the complex root canal anatomy may be affect it.
Manufacturers have created different alloys like M-Wire, Blue-Wire, Gold-Wire or R-phase.
Objective: This investigation was performed to verify the null hypothesis that there were not significant differences between size 25 instruments ESP Files Thermoflex, Protaper Ultimate, Protaper Next, Blueshaper, One Curve and 2Shape about cyclic fatigue and length of broken fragments. 180 new size 25 files of the systems investigated were selected (n=30).
Files were used with Endo Mate DT endo motor with speed and torque recommended by manufacturers, holding the instruments with clamping mechanism, with passive adjustment, glycerine and without pressure in a stainless-steel block.
Number of fatigue cycles was determined as (Resistance (s) x Speed)/60.
Separated fragment lengths were calculated with digital Vernier caliper.
Statistical analysis was carried out with the SPSS 18 programme at a 95% confidence level, using Levene´s Test to compare variances, Welch's Test to compare means, and Games-Howell´s Test to reveal differences between groups.
Levene's Test determined no equal variances ( ESP Files Thermoflex was superior in cyclic fatigue.
About separated fragment lengths, ESP Files Thermoflex, Protaper Ultimate and Blueshaper obtained longer lengths.
To determine the effect of composite restoration on reinforcement of weakened tooth structure and the possible mechanism.
Sixty freshly extracted non-carious maxillary premolars were collected and divided into 6 groups with 10 specimen in each group.
MOD cavities (buccolingual width: 2.8 to 3.2 mm; palatal cusp width: 2.0 mm; cusp height: 5.0 mm) were prepared individually.
Group 1 was prepared and not restored (control).
The other 5 groups were restored with silver amalgam alloy (group 2), Z250 without bonding (group 3), F2000 (group 4), Z250 (group 5) and Z350 nanocomposite (group 6) (3M ESPE) respectively.
The fracture resistance of the tested teeth was determined by applying a vertical splitting load through a specially shaped steel rod at a crosshead speed of 1 mm/min.
The data were analyzed by ANOVA.
The average fracture resistance of the 6 groups was: (245.29 +/- 39.49) N (group 1), (255.09 +/- 42.14) N (group 2), (267.34 +/- 31.56) N (group 3), (293.90 +/- 33.42) N (group 4), (337.81 +/- 32.63) N (group 5) and (349.08 +/- 32.93) N (group 6).
There was no significant difference between the group 1, group 2 and group 3.
The fracture resistance of group 4, group 5 and group 6 was higher than that of group 1 and group 2 (P < 0.05).
Significant difference was noted between group 5 and group 3 (P < 0.01).
The fracture resistance of group 4 was much lower than that of group 5 and group 6 (P < 0.01).
No significant difference was found between group 5 and group 6.
The use of composite increased the fracture resistance of the tooth with an MOD restoration.
This effect was related to the adhesive force, polymerization shrinkage stress and the elastic modulus of the composite.
In this paper, the fatigue crack growth rates of typical pressure vessel material 4130X under different corrosion conditions are investigated, and the effects of corrosion modes and loading frequency on the fatigue crack growth rate of 4130X are discussed.
The results show that under the same loading conditions, the pre-corroded crack propagation rate is increased by 1.26 times compared with the uncorroded specimens.
The plastic deformation mechanism of the crack tip in air is dominated by phase transformation but the hydrogen introduced by pre-corrosion causes a small number of dislocations at the crack tip.
The crack growth rate obtained by corrosion fatigue is four times that of the uncorroded specimen, and the fracture surface shows a strong corrosion effect.
The molecular dynamics simulation shows that the hydrogen atoms accumulated at the crack tip make the plastic deformation mechanism dominated by dislocation in the crack propagation process, and the coupling interaction between low frequency and the corrosion environment aggravates the hydrogen embrittlement of the crack tip.
In the air condition, the loading frequency has no obvious effect on the crack growth rate: when the frequency decreases from 100 Hz to 0.01 Hz and other conditions remain unchanged, the fatigue crack growth rate increases by 1.5 times.
Advances in surgical procedure, prosthesis design, and biomaterials performance have considerably increased the longevity of total joint replacements.
Preoperative planning is another step in joint replacement that may have the potential to improve clinical outcome for the individual patient, but has remained relatively consistent for a long time.
One means of advancing this aspect of joint replacement surgery may be to include predictive computer simulation into the planning process.
In this article, the potential of patient-specific finite element analysis in preoperative assessment is investigated.
Seventeen patient-specific finite element models of cemented Charnley reconstructions were created, of which six were early (<10 years) revisions.
Creep was simulated using a Maxwell model, and fatigue damage was simulated using an anisotropic continuum damage formulation.
Account was taken of the relationship between annual loading cycles and age, and stair-climbing loads were included using a walking to stair-climbing cycle ratio of 9:1.
Simulations for the equivalent of 10 years of loading were performed.
Accumulated damage, inducible displacement, and migration were computed.
Five of the six early revisions had the highest migration indicating that migration could have been used to identify early failures of these prostheses.
Resultant migration showed the most significant difference between the early revised and unrevised groups (p = 0.0024).
Furthermore, this trend was apparent from 1 year postimplantation (p = 0.0052).
This ability to differentiate early revisions shows that computational simulation of aseptic loosening in cemented prostheses could prove clinically useful in helping surgeons optimize the preoperative plan for individual patients.
Corrosive solutions have an enormous effect on fatigue life of components in refinery industry.
Several post-processing solutions are proposed to improve the weld zone, which is affected by the corrosive solutions.
Ultrasonic peening (UP) is developed to enhance the fatigue life, specifically in corrosive environments and corrosion resistance of the components.
The enhancement mechanism of UP is based on severe plastic deformation and reduction of tensile residual stress in weld toe.
In this research, the fatigue-corrosion life of welded 316 Stainless Steel (SS) pipe is enhanced through utilizing UP process with different diameters of strikers.
Fatigue-corrosion life of the weld on 316 SS and 347 SS fillers, as experimental samples, is studied in corrosive environments.
This study intends to shed more light on the influence of corrosion and strength in fatigue-corrosion life of the sample materials.
Therefore, this article studies the microstructure and pitting corrosion of the samples at different zones.
The experimental results showed enhancement of fatigue-corrosion life after applying UP.
The results revealed that welding by using 316 SS filler and UP with striker diameter of 4 mm have the highest fatigue life in the simulated H
Irreversible liver cirrhosis was induced in rats by supplementing their diet with 0.02% azathioprine and intubating them twice a week with carbon tetrachloride in corn oil.
Over period of 3 mo, intoxicated rats showed an atypical acute-phase reaction (APR).
The relative concentrations of haptoglobin, beta-lipoprotein, alpha-1-antitrypsin, an unknown peak "X, " and transferrin increased exponentially following a mild initial drop, while albumin, C3c + C3, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, alpha-1-lipoprotein, and macroglobulin declined continually during the experiment.
The accumulated peritoneal fluid was found to contain a similar spectrum of APR proteins.
On the other hand, histological examination revealed gradual liver damage manifested as a gradual increase in the areas of collagen separating liver cells, and at the end of the experiment, severe liver damage was evident with isolated hepatocytes in a matrix of collagen.
The available data point to the disparity that exists between the physical status of hepatocytes and their biochemical function, which suggests that the remaining metabolically fatigued hepatocytes of the cirrhotic liver continue to biosynthesize and release elevated concentrations of some secretable APR proteins and less of others.
Changes in the spectrum of APR plasma components during the progression of inflammatory or physical lesion remain a valid biochemical measure of the pathological function of the acutely intoxicated liver.
Partial hepatectomy (PH) of cirrhotic liver displayed a mute APR and no regenerative activity of the remnant hepatic tissue, most likely due to the substantial depletion of hepatic DNA and possible chemical damage to DNA of the remaining viable hepatocytes.
A possible cause for the depressed APR to the surgical insult of PH is that the initial azathioprine-CCl4 intoxication had maximally affected APR gene expression and a second injury would then elicit minimal further changes in mRNA levels.
Thus, in a compounded pathological condition, the initial inflammatory stimulus on various pre-rRNAs, rRNAs, and mRNAs is rate-limiting to the hepatic biosynthesis and secretion of APR proteins and may not respond linearly, if at all, to a second stimulus.
Overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome represents one of the main urinary disorders associated with multiple sclerosis (MS).
At present, no widely accepted effective treatment is available.
Duloxetine, an antidepressant acting as a selective serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, has been shown to be effective in the treatment of some symptoms of stress urinary incontinence and OAB because of etiology other than MS.The present study aims at establishing the efficacy and tolerability of duloxetine in the treatment of OAB in patients affected by remitting-relapsing MS and secondary progressive MS.
Twenty-three patients with MS, 13 of which with remitting-relapsing MS and 10 with secondary progressive MS, have been treated with duloxetine and placebo for a total period of 8 weeks during a single-blinded cross-over trial. At each programmed visit, patients have been screened for the following: (1) quantitative evaluation of maximal bladder capacity and postmicturition residual volume; (2) questionnaire administration to evaluate bladder disorder--Overactive Bladder Questionnaire, quality of life--Visual Analogue Scale-Quality of life, fatigue--Fatigue Severity Scale, and depression--Beck Depression Inventory.
Three patients did not complete the study because of duloxetine-related adverse events.
A statistically significant improvement in bladder disorder, as measured by OAB-Q, has been observed after duloxetine treatment compared with both basal levels and placebo with values of 21.8 ± 1.1 versus 34.2 ± 1.2 (P < 0.0001) and 21.8 ± 1.1 versus 30.1 ± 1.7 (P < 0.003), respectively.In addition, a decrease in postmicturition residual volume has also been observed compared with basal level (6.8 ± 3.2 ml vs 38.1 ± 12.2 ml, P = 0.06) together with an improvement in quality of life (7.1 ± 0.5 vs 6.3 ± 0.4, P = 0.07).
Both these changes were close to being statistically significant.
It emerges from this study that duloxetine might become an effective therapeutic alternative to be investigated in a larger number of MS patients for the treatment of OAB.
Duloxetine should be considered a first-choice drug in the treatment of MS patients presenting both depression and OAB; in addition, it should also be considered as a suitable alternative or as concomitant treatment in MS patients with OAB but not experiencing depression.
To investigate the coupled effects of cable corrosion on the ultimate strength and fatigue performance of cable-stayed bridges, sophisticated numerical simulations incorporating established corrosion mechanisms were conducted.
Corrosion-induced degradation was modeled through cross-sectional area reduction and material property deterioration, with specific emphasis on wire elongation capacity attenuation.
Three finite element models representing steel cable-stayed bridges with distinct spans (300 m, 600 m, and 900 m) were subjected to progressive collapse analysis and fatigue assessment.
The results indicate that: (1) Structural failure consistently manifested through plastic hinge formation and fracture at the mid-span girder across all models, accompanied by partial plastification at the tower base; (2) Increased span length elevated cable stress at failure, thereby amplifying the influence of cross-sectional area reduction on ultimate strength; (3) Reduction of wire elongation rate from 4% to 3% or 2% resulted in marginal ultimate strength reductions, whereas attenuation to 1% induced precipitous capacity decline; (4) Under concurrent minimum cable area and elongation rate conditions, the ultimate load-bearing capacity of all bridge configurations experienced an approximate 50% reduction; (5) Corrosion significantly compromised fatigue performance at all cable positions, with localized pitting corrosion exacerbating stress concentration effects and accelerating cross-sectional degradation, consequently diminishing fatigue life.
Materials for implanted heart valves face challenges unmatched for most mechanical applications.
The valves must function without interruption for lifetimes in the order of 10(9) cycles in a corrosive, hostile environment.
A particular carbon has been widely used for the past three decades.
The mechanical behavior of this isotropic pyrolytic carbon (PyC), with and without silicon alloying, was studied in this research program.
Several questions were addressed: the fatigue strength at lifetimes of 10(9) cycles, the threshold for crack growth, the validity of fracture mechanics for PyC, and the statistics of ultra-high survival under cyclic stress.
It was found that cyclic stressing within the scatter band of the static strength did not initiate cracks.
Furthermore, artificially induced cracks did not grow under cyclic stressing below a threshold stress intensity factor.
This threshold stress intensity factor was valid over a wide range of crack lengths.
No failures occurred when batches of 29 specimens were tested above the service stress at 6 x 10(8) cycles.
Cyclic stressing did not reduce the static strength.
The service stress is a small fraction of the fracture strength; thus, a very high probability of survival can be ensured by a proof test of the assembly.
At present, researchers pay great attention to the development of metastable β-titanium alloys.
A task of current importance is the enhancement of their strength and fatigue properties.
An efficient method for increasing the strength of such alloys could be severe plastic deformation.
The object of this study was a medical metastable β-titanium alloy Ti-15Mo (ASTM F2066).
The alloy in the (α + β) state was for the first time deformed by combined processing, including equal channel angular pressing-conform and drawing.
Such processing enabled the production of long-length rods with a length of 1500 mm. The aim of the work was to study the effect of the combined processing on the alloy's microstructure and mechanical properties.
An ultrafine-grained structure with an average size of structural elements less than 100 nm was obtained.
At the same time, high strength and ductility (σ
Originally formulated to mitigate high-altitude sickness, Xinnaoxin capsules (XNX) are composed of three traditional Chinese medicines (Rhodiola rosea L., Lycium barbarum L. and Hippophae rhamnoides) with properties of anti-hypoxia, anti-fatigue, and anti-aging.
Emerging evidence now suggests that XNX may also offer therapeutic benefits in Alzheimer's disease (AD), highlighting its potential significance in the development of novel AD treatments.
This study aims to investigate whether XNX improves AD-related behavioral and cognitive deficits by enhancing antioxidant defenses, reducing peripheral and neuroinflammation, and protecting neurons.
The AD mouse model was established using D-galactose and aluminum chloride.
Spatial memory and anxiety-like behaviors were assessed via the Morris water maze and open field tests to evaluate the therapeutic effects of XNX.
Biochemical markers in hippocampal tissue and serum were measured using ELISA kits, while serum chemical composition was analyzed by LC-MS.
Histopathological changes and amyloid-β deposition in the hippocampus were examined through hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining and immunofluorescence.
Additionally, hippocampal expression of apoptotic proteins Bax and Caspase-3, anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, and synaptic proteins PSD-95 and Syn were assessed via Western blot.
Behavioral tests demonstrated that XNX significantly improved spatial learning and memory abilities, as well as reduced anxiety-like behaviors in AD mice.
XNX also modulated inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress markers in hippocampal tissue and serum, while reducing amyloid-β deposition.
Further LC-MS analysis of serum revealed a marked upregulation of compounds such as adenosine following treatment, with key metabolic pathways affected, including linoleic acid metabolism and phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis.
HE staining and immunofluorescence indicated that XNX ameliorated neuronal damage and decreased amyloid-β accumulation.
Western blot analysis confirmed that XNX inhibited neuronal apoptosis and preserved synaptic proteins in the hippocampus.
XNX mitigates AD-induced behavioral and cognitive deficits by enhancing antioxidant defenses, reducing peripheral and neuroinflammation, and protecting neurons.
Our findings provide valuable data and a theoretical foundation for the potential therapeutic application of XNX in AD treatment and its further development.
This article presents production results concerning metal matrix composite-coatings made using the laser-cladding technology.
The enhancement of the wear resistance of the material surface is the one of the main goals accompanying the manufacturing of composite coatings.
Nickel-based superalloys are used in several industries because they are characterized by a number of desirable properties including high tensile and fatigue strength as well as resistance to high-temperature corrosion in aggressive environments.
One of the most interesting materials from the group of superalloys is Inconel 625, used as a matrix material in tests discussed in this article.
However, nickel-based superalloys are also characterized by an insufficient wear resistance of the surface, therefore, in relation to the tests discussed in this article, Inconel 625-based composite coatings were reinforced by adding 10%, 20% and 40% of titanium carbide particles.
The addition of hard phases, i.e., TiC, WC or SiC particles can have a positive effect on the erosion resistance of cladded specimens.
The aim of the experiment was to determine the impact of the titanium carbide content on the structure of the alloy and its resistance to corrosive wear, enabling the extension of the service life of Inconel 625/TiC composite coatings.
The investigation included microhardness tests, corrosion resistance analysis, penetrant tests, macrostructure and microstructure analyses and X-ray diffraction (XRD) tests.
The TiC particles increased the hardness of the coatings and, in general, had a negative impact on the corrosion resistance of pure Inconel 625 coatings.
However, the increased homogeneity of composite coatings translated into the improvement of corrosion resistance.
Fatigue damage failure is a process where the mechanical properties of different materials continuously degrade under the action of cyclic loads.
The cumulative analysis of fatigue damage has a significant impact on the service structure of major equipment.
This paper starts from the mechanism of fatigue damage evolution, comprehensively considers the influence of the order of high-low cycle load mixed cyclic loading on the fatigue life performance, and based on the Manson-Halford nonlinear fatigue damage accumulation theory and the mechanism of relative cumulative damage, a new nonlinear damage accumulation fatigue life model is established, and a fatigue damage accumulation influencing factor
Muscle tissue has an exceptional ability to regenerate, however, unresting damage to the muscles by intense and frequent exercises occasionally causes prolonged muscle fatigue, soreness, and underperformance in sports.
Taking rest is generally considered to be crucial for regular training to avoid the accumulation of muscle damage.
We hypothesized that differences in the resting intervals between two periods of exercise may result in histological differences in muscle regeneration.
An eccentric contraction model of mouse gastrocnemius muscle was made using percutaneus electrical stimulation.
The mice received eccentric exercises twice with resting intervals of 0, 12, 24 hours, 2, and 3 days.
The authors investigated the ratio of myofibers with central nuclei to whole myofibers histologically (the centronuclear cell ratio; CNCR) at 14 days after the second exercise as an index of the muscle regeneration.
The CNCR of the group that exercised one-time was 29.5%.
In the groups exercised twice, it increased from 31.8% with an interval of 0 hours to a peak of 43.9% with 24 hours, then decreased to 32.8% with an interval of 3 days.
The ratios of the groups with intervals of 12 and 24 hours were higher than those with one-time exercise and those with the intervals of 0 hours, 2 days, and 3 days.
The resting interval between two periods of eccentric exercises affected the histology of muscle regeneration.
The amount of muscle damage and/or the recovery process of damaged muscles should vary depending on the length of resting interval between strenuous exercises.
An appropriate interval for rest must be necessary in order to avoid further muscle damage.
Large engineering structures made of various materials, including concrete (e.g., bridges, dams, buildings, and multilevel car parks), steel (e.g., power towers, ships, and wind turbines), or others, are often subjected to severe vibration, dynamic, and cyclic loads, which lead to crack initiation, crack growth, and finally structural failure.
One of the effective techniques to increase the fatigue life of such structures is the use of reinforced materials.
In the meantime, environmental factors, such as corrosion caused by corrosive environments, also affect the fatigue behavior of materials.
Therefore, the main purpose of this paper is to study the influence of corrosive environment on the high-cycle fatigue (HCF) behavior of concrete reinforced by epoxy resin.
For this purpose, five corrosive environments with different intensities, including fresh air, water: W, sea water: SW, acidic: AC, and alkaline: AL, were considered and the laboratory samples of conventional concrete (CC) and polymer concrete (PC) were immersed in them for one month.
Next, axial fatigue tests were performed under compressive-compressive loading with a frequency of 3 Hz on cylindrical specimens.
Moreover, to achieve reliable results, for each stress amplitude, the fatigue test was repeated three times, and the average number of cycles to failure was reported as the fatigue lifetime.
Finally, the stress-life cycle (S-N) curves of different states were compared.
The results showed that polymer concrete can resist well in corrosive environments and under cyclic loads compared to the conventional concrete, and in other words, the epoxy resin has performed its task well as a reinforcer.
The results of fatigue tests show that the load bearing range of 10 tons by CC has reached about 18 tons for PC, which indicates an 80% increase in fatigue strength.
Meanwhile, the static strength of samples in the vicinity of fresh air has only improved by 12%.
In this paper, a new method for fatigue life prediction under multiaxial stress-strain conditions is developed.
The method applies machine learning with the Gaussian process for regression to build a fatigue model.
The fatigue failure mechanisms are reflected in the model by the application of the physics-based stress and strain invariants as input quantities.
The application of the machine learning algorithm solved the problem of assigning an adequate parametric fatigue model to given material and loading conditions.
The model was verified using the experimental data on the CuZn37 brass subjected to various cyclic loadings, including non-proportional multiaxial strain paths.
The performance of the machine learning-based fatigue life prediction model is higher than the performance of the well-known parametric models.
In patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the accumulation of bone microdamage further increases fracture risk.
Exosomes derived from the circulatory system of young individuals can reverse age-related defects during bone repair.
Therefore, the present study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the protective effects of exosomes against structural degradation under fatigue-induced damage.
To this end, a rat tibial fatigue injury model was established to investigate the protective effects of serum-derived exosomes (SDEs) isolated from young rats on bone after fatigue damage.
SDEs were administered via intramedullary injection for 3 wk.
The results demonstrated that treatment with SDEs significantly alleviated bone microdamage in ovariectomized rats.
Specifically, it decreased cortical bone microcrack density and increased the mineral apposition rate significantly.
In the distal trabecular bone region, treatment with SDEs increased bone volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD) and decreased trabecular spacing (Tb.Sp) significantly, with no significant changes in the structure model index.
This study revealed that SDEs can rapidly repair fatigue-damaged bone microstructure, improving microstructural parameters in non-weight-bearing (distal tibial) cancellous bone (increased vBMD and decreased Tb.Sp).
These findings provide a potential novel strategy for early intervention of microdamage in postmenopausal osteoporosis.
In this paper, fracture behavior of four types of implants with different geometries (pure titanium locking plate, pure titanium femoral implant, Ti-6Al-4V titanium alloy pelvic implant, X2CrNiMo18 14-3 steel femoral implant) was studied in detail.
Each implant fractured in the human body.
The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to determine the potential cause of implants fracture.
It was found that the implants fracture mainly occurred in consequence of mechanical overloads resulting from repetitive, prohibited excessive limb loads or singular, un-intendent, secondary injures.
Among many possible loading types, the implants were subjected to an excessive fatigue loads with additional interactions caused by screws that were mounted in their threaded holes.
The results of this work enable to conclude that the design of orthopedic implants is not fully sufficient to transduce mechanical loads acting over them due to an increasing weight of treated patients and much higher their physical activity.
The coarse-grain heat-affected zones (CGHAZs) of X80 girth-welded steel pipelines are prone to embrittlement, which has an extremely adverse effect on their structural integrity.
In the present work, the fracture behavior of the CGHAZs of X80 girth welds under the conditions of conventional and ultra-low heat input was studied.
The fracture toughness of CGHAZs was evaluated using the crack tip opening displacement (CTOD) test at -10 °C, and the fracture behavior mechanism of CGHAZs were clarified by analyzing microstructural characteristics at prefabricated fatigue cracks containing fracture cloud image, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and electron back-scatter diffraction (EBSD) figures.
The results illustrate that the average fracture toughness (CTOD) value of the ultra-low heat input CGHAZ is 0.6 mm, and the dispersion of CTOD values is small, while the CTOD value of conventional heat input is only 0.04 mm. The ultra-low heat input makes the high-temperature residence time of the coarse-grained region short, reduces the proportion of prior austenite grain boundaries, and inhibits the formation of strip-like bainite and island-like M-A components.
The reduction of these deleterious ductile microstructures increases the plastic reserve and deformation capacity of the CGHAZ.
To explore the potential of phosphogypsum for resource utilization in asphalt pavements, this study evaluated its feasibility as a warm-mix asphalt (WMA) additive and investigated its influence on the rheological properties of asphalt binder.
Phosphogypsum warm-mix asphalt was prepared by incorporating varying dosages of phosphogypsum warm-mix additive (PGWA) into both base asphalt and styrene-butadiene-styrene (SBS)-modified asphalt.
The high-, medium-, and low-temperature performance of phosphogypsum warm-mix asphalt was evaluated using rheological tests.
The results revealed that the complex modulus of PGWA-added base asphalt was higher than that of the base asphalt, with only minor changes in phase angle.
The incorporation of the SBS modifier significantly enhanced the stiffness and elasticity of the asphalt binder.
Compared with the control asphalt, PGWA-added asphalt exhibited lower creep strain and accumulated strain, higher creep recovery rates, and smaller non-recoverable compliance under the same stress level, indicating an improved resistance to high-temperature permanent deformation.
PGWA increased the cumulative damage capacity and extended the fatigue life of the asphalt binder.
Although the PGWA slightly reduced the low-temperature performance, the SBS modifier effectively compensated for this drawback.
The Burgers model accurately captured the low-temperature rheological behavior of PGWA-added asphalt.
Overall, PGWA-added asphalt demonstrated excellent rheological performance and high application potential, offering a promising pathway for the resource utilization of phosphogypsum and the development of sustainable, eco-friendly pavement materials.
In the aerospace and aviation sectors, the damage tolerance concept has been applied widely so that the modeling analysis of fatigue crack growth has become more and more significant.
Since the process of crack propagation is highly nonlinear and determined by many factors, such as applied stress, plastic zone in the crack tip, length of the crack,
This paper aimed to study the fatigue crack growth behavior of diffusion-bonded titanium alloy laminates (DB-TAL) with preset unbonded areas using an experimental method to understand the toughening mechanisms of presetting unbonded areas in DB-TAL.
For two series of specimens of DB-TAL with preset unbonded areas with an open hole, which have a pre-notch at the open hole edge, fatigue experiments under tension-tension cyclic loading were conducted.
The fatigue crack growth process, the crack growth rate, and the stress intensity factor on the crack front were analyzed.
The results showed that the preset unbonded area leads the crack away from the stress concentration zone and slows down the crack growth rate.
Therefore, the preset unbonded area significantly improved the fracture property of DB-TAL.
Semiconductor advancements demand greater integrated circuit density, structural miniaturization, and complex material combinations, resulting in stress concentrations from property mismatches.
This study investigates the failure in two types of interfaces found in chip packages: silicon-epoxy mold compound (EMC) and polyimide-EMC.
These interfaces were subjected to quasi-static and fatigue loading conditions.
Employing a compliance-based beam method, the tests determined interfacial critical fracture energy values, (GIC), of 0.051 N/mm and 0.037 N/mm for the silicon-EMC and polyimide-EMC interfaces, respectively.
Fatigue testing on the polyimide-epoxy interface revealed a fatigue threshold strain energy, (Gth), of 0.042 N/mm. We also observed diverse failure modes and discuss potential mechanical failures in multi-layer chip packages.
The findings of this study can contribute to the prediction and mitigation of failure modes in the analyzed chip packaging.
The obtained threshold energy and crack growth rate provide insights for designing safe lives for bi-material interfaces in chip packaging under cyclic loads.
These insights can guide future research directions, emphasizing the improvement of material properties and exploration of the influence of manufacturing parameters on delamination in multilayer semiconductors.
To improve the phenomenon of exercise-induced fatigue that often occurs during horse racing, we previously studied the improvement in exercise tolerance by acupoint catgut embedding preconditioning in an exercise-induced fatigue rat model.
We found that acupoint catgut embedding pretreatment effectively improved animal exercise tolerance.
Here, by combining transcriptomics and metabolomics, we aimed to explore the underlying mechanisms of this improvement.
We used blood biochemical detection combined with ELISA to detect triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and glucose (GLU), arachidonic acid (AA), and free fatty acid (FFA) content and found that acupoint embedding can correct FFA, AA, TG, LDH, and AST in the blood.
We used RT-qPCR to measure the expression of genes in tissue from the quadriceps femoris muscle.
We found that solute carrier family 27 member 2 (
Understanding the failure modes which instigate vertebral collapse requires the determination of trabecular bone fatigue properties, since many of these fractures are observed clinically without any preceding overload event.
Alternatives to biological bone tissue for in-vitro fatigue studies are available in the form of commercially available open cell polyurethane foams.
These test surrogates offer particular advantages compared to biological tissue such as a controllable architecture and greater uniformity.
The present study provides a critical evaluation of these models as a surrogate to human trabecular bone tissue for the study of vertebral augmentation treatments such as balloon kyphoplasty.
The results of this study show that while statistically significant differences were observed for the damage response of the two materials, both share a similar three phase modulus reduction over their life span with complete failure rapidly ensuing at damage levels above 30%.
No significant differences were observed for creep accumulation properties, with greater than 50% of creep strains being accumulated during the first quarter of the life span for both materials.
A significant power law relationship was identified between damage accumulation rate and cycles to failure for the synthetic bone model along with comparable microarchitectural features and a hierarchical composite structure consistent with biological bone.
These findings illustrate that synthetic bone models offer potential as a surrogate for trabecular bone to an extent that warrants a full validation study to define boundaries of use which compliment traditional tests using biological bone.
Welding is one of the essential stages in the manufacturing process of mechanical structures.
Friction stir welding structure of aluminum alloy has been used as a primary supporting member in aerospace equipment.
However, friction stir welding inevitably generates residual stress that promotes the initiation and propagation of cracks, threatening the performance of the welded structure.
Shot peening can effectively change the distribution of residual stress and improve the fatigue properties of materials.
In this paper, friction stir welding and shot peening are performed on 2219 aluminum alloy plates.
The residual stress fields induced by friction stir welding and shot peening are measured by using the X-ray diffraction method and incremental center hole drilling method, and the distribution characteristics of residual stress fields are analyzed.
The effect of the pellet diameters and pellet materials used in shot peening on the redistribution of welding residual stress field are investigated.
The pellet diameter used in the experiment is in the range of 0.6-1.2 mm, and the pellet material includes glass, steel, and corundum.
This study provides guidance for the application of shot peening in friction stir welding structure of 2219 aluminum alloy.
The present work extends the examination of selective laser melting (SLM)-fabricated 15-5 PH steel with the 8%-transient-austenite-phase towards fully-reversed strain-controlled low-cycle fatigue (LCF) test.
The cyclic-deformation response and microstructural evolution were investigated via in-situ neutron-diffraction measurements.
The transient-austenite-phase rapidly transformed into the martensite phase in the initial cyclic-hardening stage, followed by an almost complete martensitic transformation in the cyclic-softening and steady stage.
The compressive stress was much greater than the tensile stress at the same strain amplitude.
The enhanced martensitic transformation associated with lower dislocation densities under compression predominantly governed such a striking tension-compression asymmetry in the SLM-built 15-5 PH.
Spatial variations in the microstructure of dentine contribute to its mechanical behaviour.
The objective of this investigation was to compare the microstructure and fatigue behaviour of dentine from donors of two different countries.
Caries-free third molars were obtained from dental practices in Colombia, South America and the US to assemble two age-matched samples.
The microstructure of the coronal dentine was evaluated at three characteristic depths (i.e. deep, middle and superficial dentine) using scanning electron microscopy and image processing techniques.
The mechanical behaviour of dentine in these three regions was evaluated by the fatigue crack growth resistance.
Cyclic crack growth was achieved in-plane with the dentine tubules and the fatigue crack growth behaviour was characterized in terms of the stress intensity threshold and the Paris Law parameters.
There was no difference in the tubule density between the dentine of patients from the two countries.
However, there were significant differences (p≤0.05) in the tubule lumen diameters between the two groups in the deep and peripheral regions.
In regards to the fatigue resistance, there was a significant increase (p≤0.05) in threshold stress intensity range, and a significant decrease in fatigue crack growth coefficient with increasing distance from the pulp in teeth from the US donors.
In contrast, these properties were independent of location for the dentine of teeth from the Colombian donors.
The microstructure of dentine and its mechanical behaviour appear to be a function of patient background, which may include environmental factors and/or ethnicity.
Method of computer modeling of behavior of cylindrical and lamellar bones under the hypervelocity impact is suggested.
This method allows in the frame of mechanics of continuous medium to calculate the stress strain behavior and damage in bone tissues under the shock wave impact.
The processes of shock correlation of steel fragments of different shape with diaphysis of cylindrical bones and flat bone of calvaria under the impact 500 m/s are studied.
The given method can be used for the evaluation of damage area of bone tissue of shock wave osteoporosis under the gunshot wound.
Aging is increasingly understood not as the passive accumulation of molecular damage, but as the cumulative cost of unresolved physiological adaptation under bioenergetic constraint.
This review introduces Exposure-Related Malnutrition (ERM) as a mechanistically grounded and clinically actionable phenotype of early maladaptation.
ERM arises from sustained metabolic strain during chronic stress exposure and manifests not through overt weight loss or nutrient deficiency, but through subtle, multisystem declines in physical, cognitive, and regenerative capacity.
These include fatigue, impaired recovery, cognitive slowing, immune dysregulation, chronic pain, anabolic resistance, and reproductive decline-features often missed by classical malnutrition criteria.
We propose a unifying framework-Respond → Adapt → Resolve-to model the trajectory of stress response and resolution, emphasizing the critical role of bioenergetic availability in shaping divergent outcomes.
When metabolic substrates are insufficient, resolution fails and the system defaults to a trade-off state, prioritizing immediate survival over long-term maintenance.
ERM represents this inflection point: a reversible, energy-constrained condition that precedes frailty and chronic disease.
We review interconnected mechanisms-including neuroendocrine activation, immune reprogramming, skeletal muscle catabolism, translational suppression, and mitochondrial distress-that create a self-perpetuating loop of maladaptive adaptation.
We map ERM onto key hallmarks of aging, propose a multidimensional staging model, and outline clinical strategies to detect and reverse ERM using dynamic biomarkers, functional assessments, and circadian-aligned lifestyle interventions.
By reframing aging as a failure of adaptive resolution, this framework offers a novel lens to extend healthspan-via early detection of metabolic compromise and restoration of resilience before functional decline becomes irreversible.
To investigate the effect of salidroside on the exercise tolerance of mice under high altitude hypoxia environment.
C57BL/6J healthy male mice were randomly divided into normoxia control group, model control group,  Compared with the normoxia control group, the exhaustive swimming time of the model control group was shortened (  Salidroside has significant anti-fatigue activity, and its anti-fatigue effect is related to the reduction of oxidative stress damage, the reduction of the accumulation of undesirable metabolites and the increase in the reserve of energy substances. : To investigate the effect of salidroside on the exercise tolerance of mice under high altitude hypoxia environment. : C57BL/6J healthy male mice were randomly divided into normoxia control group, model control group,  : Compared with the normoxia control group, the exhaustive swimming time of the model control group was shortened (  : Salidroside has significant anti-fatigue activity, and its anti-fatigue effect is related to the reduction of oxidative stress damage, the reduction of the accumulation of undesirable metabolites and the increase in the reserve of energy substances.
Two designs of total knee replacements were analysed to determine how the geometry of their bearing surface would affect the susceptibility of their ultra high molecular weight polyethylene tibial inserts to delamination.
Orientations of the femoral components on the tibial surfaces were calculated with use of rigid body analysis for discrete intervals during the stance phase of gait.
For each successive orientation, finite element analysis was used to compress the components together to determine the stresses in the tibial inserts.
A damage function analogous to strain energy density was defined to account for the accumulated amplitudes and frequencies of the maximum shear stress cycles and hence to predict fatigue failure.
The damage function was applied to each polyethylene element in the tibial insert, and the highest value calculated for each design was its damage score.
One knee had a damage score more than three times less than that of the other because of lower stresses and because the contact points moved in the medial-lateral as well as anterior-posterior directions during internal-external rotation.
The femoral and tibial components of this knee had large outer frontal radii and close conformity in the frontal plane.
We propose that this method, which accounts for the motions and stresses endured during walking, makes different predictions regarding the likelihood of delamination compared with the predictions made by conventional static compression tests performed when the knee is in a neutral position.
Animal models of overuse injuries do not typically control loads applied to the tendon.
Our in vivo model in the rat patellar tendon allows direct control of the loading applied to the tendon.
Despite this advantage, natural variation among tendons results in different amounts of damage induced by the same loading protocol.
Our objectives were to (1) assess changes in the initial mechanical parameters (hysteresis, stiffness of the loading and unloading load-displacement curves, and elongation) after fatigue loading to identify parameters that are indicative of the induced damage, and (2) evaluate the relationships between these identified initial damage indices with the stiffness 7 day after loading.
Left patellar tendons of adult, female retired breeder, Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 68) were fatigue loaded per our previously published in vivo fatigue loading protocol.
To induce a range of damage, fatigue loading consisted of either 5, 100, 500 or 7200 cycles that ranged from 1 N to 40 N.
Diagnostic tests were applied before and immediately after fatigue loading, and after 45 min of recovery to deduce recoverable and non-recoverable changes in initial damage indices.
Relationships between these initial damage indices and the 7-day stiffness (at sacrifice) were determined.
Day-0 hysteresis, loading and unloading stiffness exhibited cycle-dependent changes.
Initial hysteresis loss correlated with the 7-day stiffness. k-means cluster analysis demonstrated a relationship between 7-day stiffness and day-0 hysteresis and unloading stiffness.
This analysis also separated samples that exhibited low from high damage in response to both high or low number of cycles; a key delineation for interpretation of the biological response in future studies.
Identifying initial parameters that reflect the induced damage is critical since the ability of the tendon to repair depends on the damage induced and the number of applied loading cycles.
The authors report on the fracture of a standard endosseous dental implant 11 years after placement.
It had been connected to a natural tooth using a nonrigid connector to compensate for the lack of a built-in antirotational system on the prosthetic abutment of the implant restoration.
Scanning electron microscopy revealed striations on the fracture surface, suggesting a fatigue-associated failure.
This study addresses the prediction of fatigue life in SAE AMS 7475-T7351 aluminum alloys under variable loads, commonly used in the construction of aircraft fuselages.
The main objective of the research was to develop a numerical-experimental procedure to analyze crack growth, using the Walker's approach which considers the effects of the stress ratio R on the fatigue crack growth rate d a / d N , combined with the Finite Element Method and Linear Regression of the Stress Intensity Factor.
Observations showed that Walker's model effectively consolidated fatigue crack propagation data for various stress ratios when applied longitudinally to L-T rolling orientation, due to low dependence of exponent m on R -value in d a / d N equation.
Simple averaging of m values effectively calculated Walker's exponent.
The methodology employed experimental tests following ASTM standards for tension, fracture toughness, and fatigue, complemented by Finite Element Method (FEM) simulations.
The Walker's model proved more effective, while the Paris-Erdogan model, which ignores the R effect, resulted in overly conservative service life estimates.
The principle of similitude suggests that this methodology could be effective in predicting fatigue life in cases with complex geometries, where calculating the Stress Intensity Factor Fracture parameter is challenging and the Finite Element Method shows efficiency.
Aging is a process that involves comprehensive physiological changes throughout the body, and improvements in the exercise capacity of individuals may delay aging and relieve fatigue.
Probiotics are subject to ongoing research to investigate their antioxidant properties.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of the probiotic  A mouse model of accelerated aging was established using D-galactose to induce oxidative stress.
The bacteria  The oral administration of  This study demonstrated that the probiotic
Macamides, the main active components contained in maca, have attracted increasing attention due to their various bioactivities.
In this study, crude macamide extract (CME) and purified macamide extract (PME) were prepared by enzyme-assisted extraction and macroporous resin separation, and the anti-fatigue effects of CME and PME were evaluated in a forced swimming model.
The composition analysis results revealed that both CME and PME mainly contain eight kinds of macamide.
Based on the results of a weight-loaded forced swimming test, compared with a control group, CME and and PME groups could prolong exhaustive swimming time, increase levels of liver glycogen (LG) and muscle glycogen (MG), accelerate fatty acid oxidation in serum to provide energy, eliminate the accumulation of blood lactic acid (BLA) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and decrease the serum biomarkers for muscle damage, such as lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK).
Histological analysis also indicated that CME and PME attenuated damage to skeletal muscle and the myocardium in mice during exercise.
Two macamide extracts have a beneficial effect on relieving physical fatigue by attenuating the damage of skeletal muscle and myocardium during exercise, and a better effect was observed in the PME group. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the effect of silver nanoparticles on the behavior of subcritical crack growth (SCG) in dental porcelains.
Prior to occurrence of fast fracture in dental porcelains, SCG occurs and leads to strength degradation over time.
SCG in dental porcelains can be characterized by the stress corrosion susceptibility coefficient, n.
A higher n value means a higher resistance to SCG.
In this study, porcelain disks were prepared by mixing a commercial dental porcelain powder with different concentrations of silver nanoparticles, and then air-dried and fired according to manufacturer's instructions.
Stress corrosion susceptibility coefficients of powder compacts were determined using a post-indentation method.
A Vickers indenter was applied to the porcelain surface, and lengths of median cracks were measured at fixed time intervals over a 24-h period to calculate n.
Addition of silver nanoparticles significantly increased the stress corrosion susceptibility coefficient of dental porcelain.
Fatigue fracture of small nitinol components commonly used in medical devices is currently dominated by the initiation and/or growth of small cracks at non-metallic inclusions preceding conventional fatigue crack growth.
Therefore, an understanding of the threshold and growth of small cracks is critical to inform fatigue performance of devices.
In this paper, we conduct rotary bend fatigue experiments of nitinol wire to 2 billion cycles, measure the inclusion from which the crack initiated, and calculate the stress intensity threshold.
Inclusion size is compared to the size of a unique feature observable with a scanning electron microscope which appears as a smooth area surrounding the inclusion and only on specimens that fractured after > 10 million cycles.
The hypothesis presented is that the smooth feature around the inclusion is the growth of a small crack which continues until it reaches a size large enough to cause conventional fatigue crack growth.
Relating inclusion size to that of the smooth feature creates a damage curve that can be written as a function of cycles to fracture.
This damage curve may be useful to estimate the critical size of the largest allowable defect based on the design life and applied loading of the nitinol component.
Grit blasting is a surface plastic deformation technique aimed to increase the surface area available for bone/implant apposition, which contributes to improve fixation and mechanical stability of Ti-6Al-4V implants.
Besides roughening, grit blasting also causes surface contamination with embedded grit particles and subtle subsurface microstructural changes that, although does not challenge their biocompatibility, might influence other surface dominated properties like corrosion and ion release.
Additional benefits are expected due to the induced compressive residual stresses, hence enhancing fatigue strength.
The net effect depends on the type of particles used for blasting, but also on the amount of the subsurface cold work associated to the severe surface plastic deformation.
In this work we study the potential of the non-contacting and contacting thermoelectric power (TEP) measurements in the analysis of the global changes induced in the Ti6Al4V when blasting the alloy with Al2O3 or ZrO2 particles, which yields a coarse and a fine rough surface, respectively.
To reveal the effect of residual stresses, a set of specimens were thermally treated.
The study proves that the non-contacting technique is more sensitive to the presence of residual stresses, whereas the contact technique is strongly influenced by the grain size refinements, work hardening and changes in solute.
This paper deals with the analysis of stress concentration at the weld toe of a Double-V and a Single-V butt-welded joints subjected to tensile, bending and shearing loads.
For each geometrical and loading case accurate close form stress concentration factor formula based on more than 3.3 thousand finite element method solutions were obtained.
The percentage error of the formulas is lower than 2.5% for a wide range of values of geometrical parameters including weld toe radius, weld width, plate thickness and weld toe angle.
The limiting case, in which the weld toe radius tends to zero is also considered.
In the cases of shearing loads, a plane model based on thermal analogy was developed.
The whole analysis was performed assuming that a circular arc represents the shape of the excess weld metal. Presented solutions may be used in computer aided fatigue assessment of structural elements.
The effect of defects and microstructure on the mechanical properties of Ti-6Al-4V welds produced by tungsten inert gas welding; plasma arc welding; electron beam welding; and laser beam welding was studied in the present work.
The mechanical properties of different weld types were evaluated with respect to micro hardness; yield strength; ultimate tensile strength; ductility; and fatigue at room temperature and at elevated temperatures (200 °C and 250 °C).
Metallographic investigation was carried out to characterize the microstructures of different weld types, and fractographic investigation was conducted to relate the effect of defects on fatigue performance.
Electron and laser beam welding produced welds with finer microstructure, higher tensile ductility, and better fatigue performance than tungsten inert gas welding and plasma arc welding.
Large pores, and pores located close to the specimen surface, were found to be most detrimental to fatigue life.
In this paper, the effect of residual stress on the stress-life (S-N) curve and fracture morphology characteristics of Ti6Al4V titanium alloy after laser shock peening (LSP) without protective coating was experimentally investigated.
The fatigue test and residual stress measurement were conducted on specimens before and after the LSP process.
It was shown that LSP produced a high-amplitude compressive residual stress field on the surface of the specimen.
After the LSP process, the fatigue life limit was increased by 16%, and the S-N curve shifted upward.
Then, based on the theory of mean stress, the mechanism whereby the compressive residual stress improves the fatigue life of Ti6Al4V titanium alloy was analyzed.
It indicated the improvement in fatigue life was because of the high-amplitude compressive residual stress on the surface and in depth induced by LSP to reduce the tensile stress produced by external loading.
In addition, the scanning electron microscope (SEM) pattern of fatigue fracture demonstrated distinct differences in the fracture morphology before and after LSP.
After LSP, the crack initiation sites of the samples moved to the subsurface where it was difficult for fatigue cracks initiating here.
Moreover, after the LSP process, there were high density of fatigue striations and many secondary cracks on the fracture of the treated specimen.
The microcracking and damage accumulation process in human cortical bone was characterized by performing cyclic loading under four-point bending at ambient temperature.
A non-destructive nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spin-spin (T(2)) relaxation technique was applied to quantify the apparent changes in bone porosity as a function of cyclic loading and prior damage accumulation, first to unloaded cortical bone to quantify the initial porosity and then to fatigued cortical bone that was subjected to cyclic loading to various levels of modulus degradation and microdamage in the form of microcracks.
The NMR T(2) relaxation time and amplitude data of the fatigued bone were compared against the undamaged state.
The difference in the T(2) relaxation time data was taken as a measure of the increase in pore size, bone porosity or microcrack density due to microdamage induced by cyclic loading.
A procedure was developed to deduce the number and size distributions of microcracks formed in cortical bone.
Serial sectioning of the fatigued bone showed the formation of microcracks along the cement lines or within the interstitial tissue.
The results on the evolution of microdamage derived from NMR measurements were verified by independent experimental measurements of microcrack density using histological characterization techniques.
The size distribution and population of the microcracks were then utilized in conjunction with an analytical model to predict the degradation of the elastic modulus of cortical bone as a function of damage accumulation.
The aim of this study was to identify and analyze the fatigue fracture characteristics of dissimilar Al 6061 to Cu (UNS C11000) lap joints made with ultrafast electromagnetic pulse welding (EMPW) via fractography, stress analysis and finite element simulation.
It was observed that EMPW generated an annular (or ring-shaped) bonding area, with weld zones and a central non-weld zone when viewed from the cross section.
Two types of failure modes occurred in relation to the cyclic loading levels: base metal fracture or transverse through-thickness (TTT) crack growth at a higher loading level, and joint interfacial failure at a lower loading level.
In the interfacial failure, fatigue crack initiated from the outer edge of annular welding area, and propagated to form an approximate elliptical boundary.
Fatigue crack propagation was characterized by fatigue striations existing in discrete areas on the fracture surface.
This was attributed to a coupled role of shear and normal stresses present in a tensile lap shear sample due to the bending moment caused by the inherent misalignment.
The final rapid fracture started from elliptical boundary with elongated shear dimples.
Both theoretical stress analysis and finite element model revealed the maximum stress and stress concentration along the outer edge, where fatigue crack initiation occurred.
This study analyzes the effects of shot peening on the crack initiation behavior under fretting loading by using a numerical method.
The residual stress relaxation and the contact stress evolution are both considered.
The crack initiation life is predicted by the critical plane Smith⁻Watson⁻Topper (SWT) model.
Considering that the fretting contact region has a high stress gradient along the depth direction, the process volume approach is adopted to calculate the SWT parameters.
The results show that the remaining residual stress after relaxation strongly affects crack initiation life.
The remaining residual stress decreases with the increase of fatigue loading, and the effect of shot peening on the improvement of crack initiation life is more obvious under smaller fatigue loading.
Furthermore, under smaller fatigue loading, the crack initiation life of specimens with high shot peening intensity is longer than that of specimens with low shot peening intensity.
However, the opposite phenomenon appears when the fatigue loading is large enough.
The use of adhesive joints in naval applications requires a thorough understanding of their fatigue performance.
This paper reports on the fatigue experiments performed on double cantilever beam specimens with thick adhesive bondline manufactured under shipyard conditions.
The specimens have an initial crack at the steel-adhesive interface and are tested in unaged, salt-spray-aged and immersion-aged conditions to determine the interface mode I fatigue properties.
The strain energy release rate is calculated using the Kanninen-Penado model, and the fatigue crack growth curve is determined using a power law model.
The crack growth rate slope for salt-spray-aged specimens is 16.5% lower than for unaged specimens, while that for immersion-aged specimens is 66.1% lower and is shown to be significantly different.
The fracture surfaces are analyzed to identify the failure mechanisms and the influence of the aging process on the interface properties.
Since the specimens are manufactured under shipyard conditions, the presence of voids and discontinuities in the adhesive bondline is observed and as a result leads to scatter.
Hence, Bayesian linear regression is performed in addition to the ordinary least squares regression to account for the scatter and provide a distribution of plausible values for the power law coefficients.
The results highlight the impact of aging on the fatigue property, underscoring the importance of considering environmental effects in the qualification of such joints for marine applications.
In this work, the fatigue crack growth (FCG) behavior and fatigue damage mechanism of the 2.25Cr1Mo0.25V steel welded joint used in hydrogenation reactors were investigated.
The multi-pass welding was carried out to manufacture the welded joint using the combined shielded metal arc welding (SMAW) and submerged automatic arc welding (SAAW) processes.
The FCG behavior of different zones in the welded joint, including the base metal (BM), the heat-affected zone (HAZ) and the weld metal (WM), were studied by compact tension tests.
Moreover, the acoustic emission (AE) technique was used to monitor AE signals generated from FCG process for further understanding FCG behavior and fatigue mechanisms.
Additionally, the microstructures and fracture surfaces of different specimens were observed by optical microscopy (OM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
The results revealed that the microstructure of BM is fine granular bainite, while the WM shows coarser bainite grains.
The HAZ exhibits the most significant inhomogeneity with large dispersion of grain size.
FCG results showed that the HAZ exhibits much higher fatigue crack growth rate (FCGR) at low Δ
The accumulation of sub-rupture tendon fatigue damage in the extracellular matrix, particularly of type I collagen fibrils, is thought to contribute to the development of tendinopathy, a chronic and degenerative pathology of tendons.
Quantitative assessment of collagen fibril alignment is paramount to understanding the importance of matrix injury to cellular function and remodeling capabilities.
This study presents a novel application of edge detection analysis to calculate local collagen fibril orientation in tendon.
This technique incorporates damage segmentation and stratification by severity which will allow future analysis of the direct effect of matrix damage severity on the cellular and molecular response.
The objective of this study was to more fully understand the mechanical behavior of bone tissue that is important to find an alternative material to be used as an implant and to develop an accurate model to predict the fracture of the bone.
Predicting and preventing bone failure is an important area in orthopaedics.
In this paper, the macrodamage accumulation models in the bone tissue have been investigated.
Phenomenological models for bone damage have been discussed in detail.
In addition, 3D finite element model of the femur prepared from imaging data with both cortical and trabecular structures is delineated using MIMICS and ANSYS® and simulated as a composite structure.
The damage accumulation occurring during cyclic loading was analyzed for fatigue scenario.
We found that the damage accumulates sooner in the multiaxial than in the uniaxial loading condition for the same number of cycles, and the failure starts in the cortical bone.
The damage accumulation behavior seems to follow a three-stage growth: a primary phase, a secondary phase of damage growth marked by linear damage growth, and a tertiary phase that leads to failure.
Finally, the stiffness of the composite bone comprising the cortical and trabecular bone was significantly different as expected.
With a model using feet from cadavers, we tested the hypothesis that plantar fascial release or rupture alters the loading environment of the forefoot during the latter half of the stance phase of gait.
The model simulated the position and loading environment of the foot at two instants: early in terminal stance immediately after heel-off and late in terminal stance just preceding contralateral heel strike.
Eight feet were loaded at both positions by simulated plantar flexor contraction, and the distribution of plantar pressure was measured before and after progressive release of the plantar fascia.
Strain in the diaphysis of the second metatarsal was also measured, from which the bending moments and axial force imposed on the metatarsal were calculated.
Cutting the medial half of the central plantar fascial band significantly increased peak pressure under the metatarsal heads but had little effect on pressures in other regions of the forefoot or on second metatarsal strain and loading.
Dividing the entire central band or completely releasing the plantar fascia from the calcaneus had a much greater effect and caused significant shifts in plantar pressure and force from the toes to beneath the metatarsal heads.
These shifts were accompanied by significantly increased strain and bending in the second metatarsal. Complete fasciotomy increased the magnitude of strain in the dorsal aspect of the second metatarsal by more than 80%, suggesting that plantar fascial release or rupture accelerates the accumulation of fatigue damage in these bones.
Altered forefoot loading may be a potential complication of plantar fasciotomy.
2D hybrid organic-inorganic perovskites (HOIPs) are commonly found under subcritical cyclic stresses and suffer from fatigue issues during device operation.
However, their fatigue properties remain unknown.
Here, the fatigue behavior of (C
Friction stir welding (FSW) is a promising technology for the joining of aluminum alloys and other metallic admixtures that are hard to weld by conventional fusion welding.
Although FSW generally provides better fatigue properties than traditional fusion welding methods, fatigue properties are still significantly lower than for the base material. Apart from voids, kissing bonds for instance, in the form of closed cracks propagating along the interface of the stirred and heat affected zone, are inherent features of the weld and can be considered as one of the main causes of a reduced fatigue life of FSW in comparison to the base material. The main problem with kissing bond defects in FSW, is that they currently are very difficult to detect using existing NDT methods.
Besides, in most cases, the defects are not directly accessible from the exposed surface.
Therefore, new techniques capable of detecting small kissing bond flaws need to be introduced.
In the present paper, a novel and practical approach is introduced based on a nonlinear, single-sided, ultrasonic technique.
The proposed inspection technique uses two single element transducers, with the first transducer transmitting an ultrasonic signal that focuses the ultrasonic waves at the bottom side of the sample where cracks are most likely to occur.
The large amount of energy at the focus activates the kissing bond, resulting in the generation of nonlinear features in the wave propagation.
These nonlinear features are then captured by the second transducer operating in pitch-catch mode, and are analyzed, using pulse inversion, to reveal the presence of a defect.
The performance of the proposed nonlinear, pitch-catch technique, is first illustrated using a numerical study of an aluminum sample containing simple, vertically oriented, incipient cracks.
Later, the proposed technique is also applied experimentally on a real-life friction stir welded butt joint containing a kissing bond flaw.
The residual stress introduced by laser shock peening (LSP) is one of the most important factors in improving metallic fatigue life.
The shock wave pressure has considerable influence on residual stress distribution, which is affected by the distribution of laser energy.
In this work, a titanium alloy is treated by LSP with flat-top and Gaussian laser beams, and the effects of spatial energy distribution on residual stress are investigated.
Firstly, a 3D finite element model (FEM) is developed to predict residual stress with different spatial energy distribution, and the predicted residual stress is validated by experimental data.
Secondly, three kinds of pulse energies, 3 J, 4 J and 5 J, are chosen to study the difference of residual stress introduced by flat-top and Gaussian laser beams.
Lastly, the effect mechanism of spatial energy distribution on residual stress is revealed.
Stress exists ubiquitously and is critically important for the manufacturing industry.
Due to the ultrasensitive mechanoresponse of the emission of 1,1,2,2,-tetrakis(4-nitrophenyl)ethane (TPE-4N), a luminogen with aggregation-induced emission characteristics, the visualization of stress/strain distributions on metal specimens with a pure organic fluorescent material is achieved.
Such a fluorescence mapping method enjoys the merits of simple setup, real-time, full-field, on-site, and direct visualization.
Surface analysis shows that TPE-4N can form a nonfluorescent, crystalline uniform film on the metal surface, which cracks into fluorescent amorphous fragments upon mechanical force.
Therefore, the invisible information of the stress/strain distribution of the metal specimens are transformed to visible fluorescent signals, which generally matches well but provides more details than software simulation.
Remarkably, fatigue crack propagation in stainless steel and aluminum alloy can be observed and predicted clearly, further demonstrating the ultrasensitivity and practicability of TPE-4N.
Environmental factors significantly affect the fatigue performance of weathering steel welded components in high-altitude, low-temperature corrosive environments.
This study conducted multi-factor-coupled constant-amplitude fatigue tests on Q500qENH weathering steel V-groove welded joints and built an equivalent finite element model using test data to explore key influencing factors under multi-condition coupling.
Results show that stress level most significantly affects fatigue performance, followed by corrosion duration, then ambient temperature, with influences decreasing in turn.
Analyzing 18-day cyclic immersion corrosion morphology predicts 21-year outdoor corrosion in plateau regions, providing a reliable method for long-term exposure prediction.
Finite element simulations confirm that low temperatures improve slightly corroded specimens' fatigue performance by 20%, but damage accumulates before optimal service.
This study offers key parameters for safe design of high-altitude weathering steel welded components.
In Thoroughbred racehorses, fractures of the distal limb are commonly catastrophic.
Most of these fractures occur due to the accumulation of fatigue damage from repetitive loading, as evidenced by microdamage at the predilection sites for fracture.
Adaptation of the bone in response to training loads is important for fatigue resistance.
In order to better understand the mechanism of subchondral bone adaptation to its loading environment, we utilised a square root function defining the relationship between bone volume fraction [Formula: see text] and specific surface [Formula: see text] of the subchondral bone of the lateral condyles of the third metacarpal bone (MCIII) of the racehorse, and using this equation, developed a mathematical model of subchondral bone that adapts to loading conditions observed in vivo.
The model is expressed as an ordinary differential equation incorporating a formation rate that is dependent on strain energy density.
The loading conditions applied to a selected subchondral region, i.e. volume of interest, were estimated based on joint contact forces sustained by racehorses in training.
For each of the initial conditions of [Formula: see text] we found no difference between subsequent homoeostatic [Formula: see text] at any given loading condition, but the time to reach equilibrium differed by initial [Formula: see text] and loading condition.
We found that the observed values for [Formula: see text] from the mathematical model output were a good approximation to the existing data for racehorses in training or at rest.
This model provides the basis for understanding the effect of changes to training strategies that may reduce the risk of racehorse injury.
Many features of orthopaedic implants have been previously examined regarding their influence on migration in trabecular bone under axial loading, with screw thread design being one of the most prominent examples.
There has been comparatively little investigation, however, of the influence that implant tip design has on migration under axial loads.
We present a novel fracture mechanics model that explains how differences in tip design affect the force required for axial penetration of porous, compressible solids similar to trabecular bone.
Three tip designs were considered based on typical 5 mm diameter orthopaedic locking screws: flat and conical tip designs, as well as a novel elastomeric tip.
Ten axial penetration trials were conducted for each tip design.
In order to isolate the effect of tip design on axial migration from that of the threads, smooth steel rods were used.
Tip designs were inserted into polyurethane foam commonly used to represent osteoporotic trabecular bone tissue (ASTM Type 10, 0.16 g/cc) to a depth of 10 mm at a rate of 2 mm/min, while force and position were recorded.
At maximum depth, elastomeric tips were found to require the greatest force for axial migration (mean of 248.24 N, 95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 238.1-258.4 N), followed by conical tips (mean of 143.46 N, 95% CI: 142.1-144.9 N), and flat tips (mean of 113.88 N, 95% CI: 112.2-115.5 N).
This experiment was repeated in cross-section while recording video of material compaction through a transparent window.
Strain fields for each tip design were then generated from these videos using digital image correlation (DIC) software.
A novel fracture mechanics model, combining the Griffith with porous material compaction, was developed to explain the performance differences observed between the three tip designs.
This model predicted that steady-state stress would be roughly the same (~ 4 MPa) across all designs, a finding consistent with the experimental results.
The model also suggested that crack formation and friction are negligible mechanisms of energy absorption during axial penetration of porous compressible solids similar to trabecular bone.
Material compaction appears to be the dominant mechanism of energy absorption, regardless of tip design.
The cross-sectional area of the compacted material formed during migration of the implant tip during axial penetration was shown to be a strong determinant of the force required for migration to occur (Pearson Coefficient = 0.902, p < .001).
As such, implant tips designed to maximize the cross-sectional area of compacted material - such as the elastomeric and conical tips in the present study - may be useful in reducing excessive implant migration under axial loads in trabecular bone.
Recent studies have proposed a simple formula, which is based on Elber's original approach to account for
Self-piercing riveted (SPR) joints in automobiles inevitably suffer from corrosion damage and performance reduction.
In this work, the influence of salt spray corrosion on the mechanical properties of TA1-Al5052 alloy SPR joints was studied.
The TA1-5052 SPR joints were prepared and salt spray tests were carried out for different durations.
The static and fatigue strengths of the joints after salt spray corrosion were tested to analyze the effect of salt spray duration on the performance of the joints.
The results show that the joints' static strength and fatigue strength decrease with prolonged salt spray time.
The salt spray duration affects the joint's tensile failure mode.
The tensile failure without corrosion and with a short salt spray time is the fracture failure of the lower aluminum sheet, and the tensile failure of the joints after a long time of salt spray corrosion is the failure of the rivets.
The fatigue failure form of the SPR joint is the formation of fatigue cracks in the lower aluminum sheet, and salt spray time has little effect on the fatigue failure form.
Salt spray corrosion can promote the initiation and propagation of fatigue cracks.
The fatigue crack initiation area is located at the boundary between the lower aluminum sheet and the rivet leg.
The initiation of cracks originates from the wear zones among the sheet metal, rivets, and salt spray particles.
The sealing performance of packers is crucial for ensuring efficient cyclic injection and production in underground gas storage (UGS) operations.
Unlike conventional oil and gas production, UGS operations experience significant temperature and pressure fluctuations due to the larger gas volumes involved.
These fluctuations can lead to premature seal failure and reduce the wellbore's service life.
However, the challenges of sealing in unique UGS environments are often overlooked.
This study addresses this gap by investigating the sealing efficacy of two distinct rubber material combinations under high temperature and pressure conditions.
First, elastoplastic theory is applied to analyze the stress distribution in the packer's rubber cylinder, establishing a comprehensive gas sealing evaluation index.
Then, two analytical models are developed to simulate large deformation contact patterns.
These simulations reveal how extreme conditions influence Mises stress, shear stress, contact stress, residual stress, and fatigue life.
A comparative analysis of the two packers highlights differences in sealing performance.
Additionally, to validate the finite element analysis (FEA), two high temperature gas sealing tests are conducted on the packers.
This study underscores the effects of temperature and pressure on packer sealing, offering insights to optimize designs and improve UGS reliability and service life.
Electrified pavements with inductive charging systems provide an innovative way of providing continuous wireless power transfer to electric vehicles (EVs).
Electrified pavements have unique construction methods, resulting in different mechanical and thermodynamic characteristics from traditional pavements.
This study aimed to investigate the mechanistic design of electrified pavements to mitigate thermal-induced reflective cracking due to the inclusion of concrete slabs with inductive charging units (CUs) under an asphalt surface layer.
Finite element (FE) models were developed to analyze the temperature profiles, pavement responses, and crack potential in electrified pavements.
The fatigue model and Paris' law were utilized to evaluate crack initiation and propagation for different pavement designs.
Within the allowable range for sufficient wireless charging efficiency, increasing the surface layer thickness had a noticeable benefit on mitigating crack initiation and propagation.
The results indicate that increasing the asphalt surface layer thickness by 20 mm can delay crack initiation and propagation, resulting in a two to threefold increase in the number of cycles needed to reach the same crack length.
Reflective cracking can also be retarded by the optimized design of the charging unit.
Increasing the concrete slab thickness from 100 mm to 180 mm resulted in an approximately 20% increase in the number of cycles to reach the same crack length.
Reducing the slab width and length (shortening joint spacing) could also effectively reduce the reflective cracking potential, with the slab length having a more significant influence.
These findings highlight the importance of balancing charging efficiency and structural durability in the design of electrified pavements.
The cavitation-induced fragmentation of primary crystals formed in Al alloys were investigated for the first time by high-speed imaging using a novel experimental approach.
Three representative primary crystal types, Al
To investigate the influences of teeth fissure properties on their failure modes, 3D Printing technology is used to prepare the teeth models.
The strain distributions of the teeth model surfaces at each moment of the loading processes are obtained by the DIC technique.
And the progressive failure processes as well as the stress distributions of the teeth models are simulated by the improved Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) Method.
Experimental results show that under the action of the steel ball, the teeth models mainly produce two types of cracks: The tensile cracks along the pre-existing fissures and the shear cracks along both sides of the teeth model.
The existence of prefabricated fissures greatly reduces the peak strength of the teeth models.
Compared with the circumstances containing no pre-existing fissures, the peak strength of d = 1 cm, d = 2 cm and d = 3 cm decreases by 22.33%, 31.79% and 18.94%, respectively, and the peak strength of θ = 30°, θ = 45°, θ = 60° decreases by 10.78%, 44.01% and 34.3%, respectively.
Numerical results show that the initiations of tensile cracks are induced by the high tensile stress concentrations at the pre-existing fissure tips, while the shear cracks are caused by the high tensile stress concentrations in the low tensile stress concentration areas after the initiation of tensile cracks.
The research results can provide some references for the understandings of teeth failure mechanisms as well as the applications of SPH method into teeth crack propagation simulations.
This paper presents an experimental study on the fatigue behaviour of shot-peened open-hole plates with Q345 steel.
The beneficial effects induced by shot peening on the fatigue life improvement are highlighted.
The characteristic fatigue crack initiation and propagation modes of open-hole details under fatigue loading are revealed.
The surface hardening effect brought by the shot peening is analyzed from the aspects of in-depth micro-hardness and compressive residual stress.
The fatigue life results are evaluated and related design suggestions are made as a comparison with codified detail categories.
In particular, a fracture mechanics theory-based method is proposed and demonstrated its validity in predicting the fatigue life of studied shot-peened open-hole details.
Sex differences exist in the integrative response to exercise; however, these are typically researched during incremental and constant-load exercise.
Interval exercise involves high-intensity efforts interspersed with recovery periods to repeatedly stress physiological systems, and it is currently unknown whether the response to this form of exercise differs between sexes.
Ten males and 10 females (age: 25 ± 3 yr) completed two experimental visits.
First, an incremental treadmill exercise test was performed to obtain submaximal (lactate threshold) and maximal (V̇o
Damage accumulation in living tissues occurs when the rate of damage formation is greater than the rate of damage repair.
For very large increases in the loading rate of bones, this can result in "stress fractures" due to the growth and coalescence of fatigue related microdamage.
At lower increases of loading rates, the damage accumulation process is halted because there is time for adaptive bone-remodeling to occur in response to the new load.
However, it is not known if there is a relationship between microdamage and bone remodeling per se.
One hypothesis for the control of bone remodeling is that osteocytes sense strains and mediate osteoblastic and osteoclastic activity.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether damage generates strains which may trigger bone remodeling.
If this were true, then accumulative damage would cause adaptive bone remodeling.
This study applies the methods of finite element analysis to determine the effect of observed damage mechanisms on the proposed sensors of remodeling in Haversian bone.
Individual lamellae are modeled and osteocyte-lacunae are included in a generalized plane strain geometric representation.
It is predicted that microdamage alters the local deformation behavior around lacunae, and that the changes increase as microdamage accumulates.
Hence, if damage accumulates in a bone, it could be sensed as a change in strain at a microstructural level.
The results give theoretical support to the experimental studies that have shown a correlation between microdamage and the initiation of resorption as a first step in bone remodeling.
In recent decades, the application of fibre-reinforced polymer (FRP) composites for strengthening structural elements has become an efficient option to meet the increased cyclic loads or repair due to corrosion or fatigue cracking.
Hence, the objective of this study is to explore the existing FRP reinforcing techniques to care for fatigue damaged structural steel elements.
This study covers the surface treatment techniques, adhesive curing, and support conditions under cyclic loading including fatigue performance, crack propagation, and failure modes with finite element (FE) simulation of the steel bridge girders and structural elements.
FRP strengthening composites delay initial cracking, reduce the crack growth rate, extend the fatigue life, and decrease the stiffness decay with residual deflection.
Prestressed carbon fibre-reinforced polymer (CFRP) is the best strengthening option.
End anchorage prevents debonding of the CRRP strips at the beam ends by reducing the local interfacial shear and peel stresses.
Hybrid-joint, nanoadhesive, and carbon-flex can also be attractive for strengthening systems.
In the absence of a corrosive environment, brittle materials such as silicon should be immune to cyclic fatigue.
However, fatigue effects are well known in micrometer-sized polycrystalline silicon (polysilicon) samples tested in air.
To investigate the origins of this phenomenon in polysilicon, we developed a fixed-grip fracture mechanics microspecimen but could find no evidence of static stress corrosion cracking.
The environmental sensitivity of the fatigue resistance was also investigated under cyclic loading.
For low-cycle fatigue, the behavior is independent of the ambient conditions, whether air or vacuum, but is strongly influenced by the ratio of compressive to tensile stresses experienced during each cycle.
The fatigue damage most likely originates from contact stresses at processing-related surface asperities; subcritical crack growth then ensues during further cyclic loading.
The lower far-field stresses involved in high-cycle fatigue induce reduced levels of fatigue damage.
Under these conditions, a corrosive ambient such as laboratory air exacerbates the fatigue process.
Without cyclic loading, polysilicon does not undergo stress corrosion cracking.
The dynamic fatigue method was used to obtain subcritical crack growth parameters n and A for a commercial feldspathic dental porcelain and for a lanthanum-glass-infiltrated alumina glass ceramic.
Five stress rates d sigma/dt ranging from 50 to 0.01 MPa s(-1) were applied.
The inert strength values were calculated with the use of Weibull statistics and maximum-likelihood approaches for the Weibull parameter m.
Strength-probability-time (SPT) diagrams were derived for both materials.
The alumina glass composite showed a high fracture strength sigma(0) (442 MPa) at a failure probability of P(F) = 63.2% and a high resistance against subcritical crack growth (n = 36.5).
The development of strength under fatigue conditions was calculated for exemplary 1 year.
The strength of the alumina glass material dropped to 228 MPa within this period.
This fact is due to a low content of infiltrated lanthanum glass phase in the composite material (25 wt%).
In contrast, for the high-silica-glass-containing porcelain a distinct decrease of strength sigma(0) from initial 133 to 47 MPa after 1 year was predicted.
This, mainly because of a low crack growth resistance (n = 16.8) of the feldspathic porcelain.
Much lower strength values were calculated, assuming a failure probability of P(F) = 5%.
The decrease is mainly caused by the sensitivity of high-glass-containing ceramics against water corrosion.
Despite advances in understanding the molecular basis of Osteogenesis Imperfecta, the mechanisms by which type I collagen mutations compromise whole bone function are not well understood.
Previously, we have shown that a heterozygous type I collagen mutation is associated with increased brittleness of long bones from Mov13 transgenic mice, a model of the mild form of Osteogenesis Imperfecta.
In the current study, we investigated tissue-level damage processes by testing the hypothesis that the fatigue properties of Mov13 tissue were significantly compromised relative to littermate controls.
We also quantified tissue structure and mineral content to explain variations in the fatigue behavior.
Micro-beam specimens were machined from the anterior and posterior quadrants of Mov13 and control femurs and subjected to cyclic bending at one of four stress levels.
Mov13 tissue exhibited a 22-25% reduction in tissue bending strength and a similar reductions in fatigue life and the stress level at which damage was apparent.
These results provided tissue-level evidence that damage accumulation mechanisms were significantly compromised in Mov13 cortical tissue.
Given that significant alterations in tissue structure were observed in Mov13 femurs, the results of this study support the idea that Mov13 femurs were brittle because alterations in tissue structure associated with the mutation interfered with normal damage processes.
These results provide new insight into the pathogenesis of Osteogenesis Imperfecta and are consistent with bone behaving as a damaging composite material, where damage accumulation is central to bone fracture.
The traditional nonlinear ultrasonic technique, as typified by the second-harmonic generation and the frequency mixing response, can be employed to identify and characterize the micro-damage.
However, the research on micro-damage characterization using nonlinear Lamb wave imaging technique remains an ongoing challenge and is rarely reported.
A method called standardized amplitude difference is proposed for nonlinear feature enhancement, and further for fatigue crack imaging based on the wavefield data.
Wavefield data contain abundant information on the spatial and temporal variation of propagating waves in the damaged structure.
High-speed electrical discharge machining (EDM) is crucial for drilling aerospace components, but the fatigue effects of its recast layer are still not well understood.
This study investigates the fatigue behavior of high-speed EDM-processed specimens using ultrasonic fatigue testing and microscopic analysis.
The recast layer showed a 20.4% increase in hardness and a 16.5% decrease in elastic modulus compared to the base material. Fatigue cracks originated from microcracks, pores, and inclusions within the recast layer, as well as at its interface with the substrate.
Microscopic crack initiation was influenced by defect interactions, while macroscopic crack initiation occurred near the maximum hole diameter perpendicular to the loading direction due to stress concentration.
The specimens exhibited bimodal fatigue life: shorter lifetimes were observed when macroscopic stress concentrations overlapped with recast layer defects such as cracks and voids, while defect-free regions significantly extended durability.
The non-uniform distribution of the recast layer critically links microstructural heterogeneity to variations in fatigue failure.
These findings highlight how recast layer characteristics influence crack nucleation and life variability in EDM-processed components, offering valuable insights for optimizing machining parameters to reduce fatigue risks in critical aerospace applications.
Rupture of atheromatous plaque is the major cause of stroke or heart attack.
Considering that the cardiovascular system is a classic fatigue environment, plaque rupture was treated as a chronic fatigue crack growth process in this study.
Fracture mechanics theory was introduced to describe the stress status at the crack tip and Paris' law was used to calculate the crack growth rate.
The effect of anatomical variation of an idealized plaque cross-section model was investigated.
The crack initiation was considered to be either at the maximum circumferential stress location or at any other possible locations around the lumen.
Although the crack automatically initialized at the maximum circumferential stress location usually propagated faster than others, it was not necessarily the most critical location where the fatigue life reached its minimum.
We found that the fatigue life was minimum for cracks initialized in the following three regions: the midcap zone, the shoulder zone, and the backside zone.
The anatomical variation has a significant influence on the fatigue life.
Either a decrease in cap thickness or an increase in lipid pool size resulted in a significant decrease in fatigue life.
Comparing to the previously used stress analysis, this fatigue model provides some possible explanations of plaque rupture at a low stress level in a pulsatile cardiovascular environment, and the method proposed here may be useful for further investigation of the mechanism of plaque rupture based on in vivo patient data.
An externally bonded fiber reinforced polymer (FRP) plate (or sheet) is now widely used in strengthening bending members due to its outstanding properties, such as a high strength to weight ratio, easy operating, corrosion and fatigue resistance.
However, the concrete member strengthened by this technology may have a problem with the adhesion between FRP and concrete.
This kind of debonding failure can be broadly classified into two modes: (a) plate end debonding at or near the plate end, and (b) intermediate crack-induced debonding (intermediate crack-induced (IC) debonding) near the loading point.
The IC debonding, unlike the plate end debonding, still needs a large amount of investigation work, especially for the interface under fatigue load.
In this paper, ten single shear pull-out tests were carried out under a static or fatigue load.
Different load ranges and load levels were considered, and the debonding growth process was carefully recorded.
The experimental results indicate that the load range is one of the main parameters, which determines the debonding growth rate.
Moreover, the load level can also play an important role when loaded with the same load range.
Finally, a new prediction model of the fatigue debonding growth rate was proposed, and has an excellent agreement with the experimental results.
The purpose of this study was to perform fracture mode analysis for in vitro failed implants in order to evaluate the relation between the fracture mode obtained and the implants' fatigue behavior.
Eighty fractured dental implants were analyzed after being tested for fatigue performance.
A macroscopic failure analysis was performed, which evaluated and located the fracture modes obtained, followed by a microscopic failure analysis comprising a detailed scanning electron microscopy (SEM) fractographic analysis.
Four distinctive fracture loci were identified and macrofracture mode analysis was performed, showing that all 5-mm implants that fractured were fractured at the abutment neck and screw.
In the 3.75-mm group, 44.4% were fractured at the implant neck and 55.5% at the implants second thread.
Fifty-two percent of the 3.3-mm fractured implants had it at the implants second tread and 48% at the implants third thread.
The implant's metallographic sections revealed that the different fracture loci were located where thin metal cross sections and sharp notches coexist.
Using SEM, we were able to characterize the failure micromechanisms and fatigue characterization as transgranular fracture and arrays of secondary parallel microcracks at relatively low magnifications and classic fatigue striations at much higher magnifications.
The results of this study indicate that proper implant design is crucial to ensure long-term fatigue performance for dental implants.
The combination of sharp notches (thread) and narrow metal cross section is quite deleterious for fatigue resistance.
Musculoskeletal injuries are a common cause of lost training days and wastage in racehorses.
Many bone injuries are a consequence of repeated high loading during fast work, resulting in chronic damage accumulation and material fatigue of bone.
The highest joint loads occur in the fetlock, which is also the most common site of subchondral bone injury in racehorses.
Microcracks in the subchondral bone at sites where intra-articular fractures and palmar osteochondral disease occur are similar to the fatigue damage detected experimentally after repeated loading of bone.
Fatigue is a process that has undergone much study in material science in order to avoid catastrophic failure of engineering structures.
The term 'fatigue life' refers to the numbers of cycles of loading that can be sustained before failure occurs.
Fatigue life decreases exponentially with increasing load.
This is important in horses as loads within the limb increase with increasing speed.
Bone adapts to increased loading by modelling to maintain the strains within the bone at a safe level.
Bone also repairs fatigued matrix through remodelling.
Fatigue injuries develop when microdamage accumulates faster than remodelling can repair.
Remodelling of the equine metacarpus is reduced during race training and accelerated during rest periods.
The first phase of remodelling is bone resorption, which weakens the bone through increased porosity.
A bone that is porous following a rest period may fail earlier than a fully adapted bone.
Maximising bone adaptation is an important part of training young racehorses.
However, even well-adapted bones accumulate microdamage and require ongoing remodelling.
If remodelling inhibition at the extremes of training is unavoidable then the duration of exposure to high-speed work needs to be limited and appropriate rest periods instituted.
Further research is warranted to elucidate the effect of fast-speed work and rest on bone damage accumulation and repair.
This study describes the development and application of a novel rat patellar tendon model of mechanical fatigue for investigating the early in vivo response to tendon subfailure injury.
Patellar tendons of adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were fatigue loaded between 1-35N using a custom-designed loading apparatus.
Patellar tendons were subjected to Low-, Moderate- or High-level fatigue damage, defined by grip-to-grip strain measurement.
Molecular response was compared with that of a laceration-repair injury.
Histological analyses showed that progression of tendon fatigue involves formation of localized kinked fiber deformations at Low damage, which increased in density with presence of fiber delaminations at Moderate damage, and fiber angulation and discontinuities at High damage levels.
RT-PCR analysis performed at 1- and 3-day post-fatigue showed variable changes in type I, III and V collagen mRNA expression at Low and Moderate damage levels, consistent with clinical findings of tendon pathology and were modest compared with those observed at High damage levels, in which expression of all collagens evaluated were increased markedly.
In contrast, only type I collagen expression was elevated at the same time points post-laceration.
Findings suggest that cumulative fatigue in tendon invokes a different molecular response than laceration.
Further, structural repair may not be initiated until reaching end-stage fatigue life, where the repair response may unable to restore the damaged tendon to its pre-fatigue architecture.
This paper analyzes the structure of the key parts of the car belt guide, and the average stress of the vulnerable parts is simulated by analysis software.
The theoretical stress of the section is calculated.
The theoretical stress concentration factor (Kt) is given.
The relation between the gap radius and the notch coefficient (Kf) was studied according to a previous Kf calculation formula.
The tensile tests of real products are used as reference data.
The results showed that Kf and Kt are linear in most cases, but there are also cases of non-compliance.
The relationship between the fatigue notch coefficient Kf and the theoretical stress concentration coefficient Kt was closely related to the service life and fatigue strength of the product.
In addition, we found that the size and direction of warpage improved significantly with the increase of fillet size, which was not consistent with the effect of adding glass fiber material. The rounded corners of ordinary PP materials usually displayed forward warping, but the addition of glass fiber into PP materials made the degree of warping smaller, or even led to reverse warping.
The size of rounded corners is an important optimization parameter.
The relationship between Kf and Kt was studied from the perspectives of virtual measurement (VM) and recognizable performance evaluation (RPM).
According to abnormal filling pressure, these relationships were compared with filling data to generate a fracture initiation control model.
Based on a large amount of normal process data and quality inspection data, the historical data (causes) and quality inspection data (results) were combined.
This study proposes a novel numerical approach to simulate damage accumulation and failure in polymer materials under thermal fatigue, using an entropy-based damage criterion.
Unlike the many experimental studies in this area, few numerical simulations exist due to the complexity of modeling thermal fatigue.
In our method, thermal and mechanical stresses arising from thermal expansion mismatches and temperature gradients are modeled through a coupled simulation approach.
A viscoelastic constitutive equation is implemented in ABAQUS via a user-defined subroutine to capture damage progression.
The method includes surface and internal thermal conduction, thermal deformation, and time-temperature superposition using reduced viscosity, enabling accurate simulation under varying thermal conditions.
The results show that localized thermal stresses induced by temperature gradients lead to progressive damage and failure.
This study demonstrates the first successful numerical simulation of thermal fatigue-induced damage in polymer materials.
The proposed framework reduces the need for extensive experiments and offers insights into residual stress prediction and durability evaluation, contributing to polymer design and application in high-performance environments.
To evaluate the effect of reciprocating amplitude and progressive angular increment on fatigue life enhancement of NiTi rotary endodontic instruments.
ProTaper F2 instruments were operated in steel artificial canals with both stationary reciprocating (SR) and progressive reciprocating (PR) motions.
The SR motions involved symmetric to and fro reciprocation of ± 180(o) , ± 135(o) , ± 90(o) , ± 60(o) and ± 45(o) .
The PR motions were ± 45(o) stationary motion superimposed with angular increments of 7(o) , 11(o) , 22.5(o) or 31(o) whenever an instrument completed 1, 10 or 30 reciprocating cycles (rc).
The fatigue lives were compared with those under continuous rotation (CR) and a reciprocating operation with a forward 144(o) and backward 72(o) motion proposed by Yared (2008).
The statistical significance of these operating modes on fatigue life was examined using one way anova and post hoc Tukey's tests at P = 0.05.
Fractographic analysis was also applied to probe the fracture mechanisms of different rotation motions.
Fatigue life increased with decreasing reciprocating amplitude.
Operating in the SR increased fatigue life by 355% over that in the CR.
Except for the 22.5(o) increment, all PR motions yielded longer fatigue lives than the SR motion.
A progressive reciprocating operation with a ± 45(o) reciprocating amplitude and a + 7(o) progressive angular increment every 10 reciprocating cycles (± 45(o) /10rc/+7(o) ) increased fatigue life by 990% over that in the CR motion.
In terms of life enhancement over the CR motion, the larger the curvature the less are the differences between different movements.
Single crack initiation sites were found in the CR and SR motions, while three crack initiation sites were typical in the ± 45(o) /10rc/+7(o) motion.
Fatigue life increased with decreasing reciprocating amplitude in stationary reciprocation.
A progressive reciprocating operation with ± 45(o) /10rc/+7(o) motion led to significant fatigue life enhancement and multiple fatigue crack initiation in NiTi endodontic instruments.
In order to improve fatigue life of GH3039 superalloy, GH3039 superalloy sheets were treated by laser shock peening (LSP).
The microstructure of GH3039 superalloy before and after LSP was characterized using an optical microscope, transmission electron microscope (TEM), and X-ray diffractometer.
The fatigue life of the samples with and without LSP was investigated by fatigue experiments.
Moreover, surface profile and residual stress were also examined.
Experimental results indicated that the grains in the surface layer of the LSP sample were remarkably refined and reached the nanometer scale.
The average surface roughness increased from 0.024 μm to 0.19 μm after LSP.
The average fatigue life of the laser treated samples was 2.01 times larger than that of the untreated specimens.
Additionally, mathematical statistical analysis confirms that LSP has a significant influence on the fatigue life of GH3039 superalloy.
The improvement of fatigue life for the laser processed GH3039 superalloy was mainly attributed to compressive residual stress and grain refinement generated by LSP.
The effect of nano grain surface layer generated by ultrasonic impact on the fatigue behaviors of a titanium alloy Ti3Zr2Sn3Mo25Nb (TLM) was investigated.
Three vibration strike-numbers of 24,000 times, 36,000 times and 48,000 times per unit are chosen to treat the surface of TLM specimens.
Nanocrystals with an average size of 30 nm are generated.
The dislocation motion plays an important role in the transformation of nanograins.
Ultrasonic surface impact improves the mechanical properties of TLM, such as hardness, surface residual stress, tensile strength and fatigue strength.
More vibration strike numbers will cause a higher enhancement.
With a vibration strike number of 48,000 times per square millimeter the rotating-bending fatigue strength of TLM at 10
Failure analysis and fatigue life prediction are necessary and critical for engineering structural materials.
In this paper, a general methodology is proposed to predict fatigue life of smooth and circular-hole specimens, in which the crack closure model and equivalent initial flaw size (EIFS) concept are employed.
Different effects of crack closure on small crack growth region and long crack growth region are considered in the proposed method.
The EIFS is determined by the fatigue limit and fatigue threshold stress intensity factor
A method and an experimental setup to study the nonlinear behavior of fatigued and intact metal samples under high-frequency stresses has been developed and tested.
The method is based on the measurement of the vibration velocity of stepped bar samples flexurally and/or extensionally vibrating at resonance.
The vibration velocity signal, picked up by a laser vibrometer, is automatically acquired and analyzed by classical fast Fourier transform (FFT) methods for different excitation levels.
The experimental setup was designed in such a way that it can be used for fatiguing and for testing the material samples.
The tests have been done with samples of titanium and aluminium alloys.
Results before and after fatigue crack nucleation are compared.
A strongly nonlinear, nonclassical behavior is observed for fatigued samples.
Theoretical interpretations of the different nonlinear behavior of standing waves in fatigued and intact samples are explored, and the results of the models are qualitatively compared with the experimental data.
The models' approach provides an interpretation about the origin of nonlinearity in fatigued samples.
Debonding of the stem-cement interface and damage accumulation in the cement mantle are basic events that contribute to the long-term failure of cemented hip reconstructions.
In this work, a numerical study with these two processes coupled is presented.
On the one hand, debonding of the stem-cement interface was simulated by means of a cohesive surface theory that was implemented into an interface finite element.
This interface model includes a tensile-shear behavior law, the fatigue failure of the interface, and the friction evolution between both surfaces.
On the other hand, damage accumulation in the cement was formulated through the theory of continuum damage mechanics, considering cement damage due to tension, creep under compression, crack closure effects, non-linear damage accumulation and cement residual stresses appearing during polymerisation.
This methodology was applied to simulate and compare the degradation process of the cement and stem-cement interface in four different concepts of design: Exeter, Charnley, Elite Plus and ABG II stems.
As the actual mechanical properties of the surface of each specific prosthesis are not known, we assumed the same for all of them, distinguishing between polished and matt surfaces.
With this assumption, the predicted results showed that the debonding process is very different for each implant depending on the stem geometry.
Lower cement deterioration was obtained for the Exeter and ABG II stems, while the lowest stem-cement interface debonding was produced in the Exeter and the Elite Plus stems.
A systematic study was conducted on the fatigue performance of Q500qENH weathering steel welded joints under low-temperature conditions of -40 °C in this paper.
Low-temperature fatigue tests were conducted on V-groove butt joints and cross-shaped welded joints and S-N curves with a 95% reliability level were obtained.
A comparative analysis with the Eurocode 3 reveals that low-temperature conditions lead to a regular increase in the design fatigue strength for both types of welded joints.
Fracture surface morphology was examined using scanning electron microscopy, and combined with fracture characteristic analysis, the fatigue fracture mechanisms of welded joints under low-temperature conditions were elucidated.
Based on linear elastic fracture mechanics theory, a numerical simulation approach was employed to investigate the fatigue crack propagation behavior of welded joints.
The results indicate that introducing an elliptical surface initial crack with a semi-major axis length of 0.4 mm in the model effectively predicts the fatigue life and crack growth patterns of both joint types.
A parametric analysis was conducted on key influencing factors, including the initial crack size, initial crack location, and initial crack angle.
The results reveal that these factors exert varying degrees of influence on the fatigue life and crack propagation paths of welded joints.
Among them, the position of the initial crack along the length direction of the fillet weld has the most significant impact on the fatigue life of cross-shaped welded joints.
Degenerative processes like repetitive strain injuries (RSIs) cause normal movement patterns to change slowly over time.
Accurately tracking how these disease/injury processes evolve over time and predicting their future progression could allow early intervention and prevent further deterioration.
However, these processes often cannot be measured directly and first-principles models of these processes and how they affect movement control are highly complex and difficult to derive analytically.
This study was conducted to determine if algorithms developed to track damage accumulation in mechanical systems without requiring first-principles models or direct measurements of the damage itself could also track a similar "hidden" process in a biomechanical context.
Five healthy adults walked on a motorized treadmill at their preferred speed, while the treadmill inclination angle was slowly increased from 0 degrees (level) to approximately +8 degrees .
Sagittal plane kinematics for the left hip, knee, and ankle joints were computed.
The treadmill inclination angle was independently recorded and defined the "damage" to be tracked.
Scalar tracking metrics were computed from the lower extremity walking kinematics.
These metrics exhibited strong cubic relationships with treadmill inclination (88.9%<or=r(2)<or=98.2%; p<0.001).
These results demonstrate that the proposed approach may also be well suited to tracking and predicting slow-time-scale degenerative biological processes like muscle fatigue or RSIs.
This possibility is potentially quite powerful because it suggests that easily obtainable biomechanical data can provide unique and valuable insights into the dynamics of "hidden" biological processes that cannot be easily measured themselves.
Malgaigne fractures are the most common and widespread pelvic injuries resulting from the shear forces the action mechanism of which has not been explained in the literature yet.
Military accidents with improvised explosive devices (IED) perfectly reflect this type of pelvic fracture.
The finite element (FE) model of lumbar-pelvic complex (LPC) was developed based on computed tomography (CT) scans with the seat including steel frame, padding and soft tissue.
The correlation coefficients of both low (100 N) and high (500 N) loads were greater than that currently obtained in the literature due to the presence of muscle force, pubic symphysis and joint cartilage.
The dynamic analysis was performed to determine the influence of varying kinds of foam materials i.e. polyurethane, aluminium honeycomb structured and polyurethane auxetic foam on the stress/strain distribution in LPC under vertical impact load with the velocity of 7 m/s.
Performed analysis showed the first fracture occurred in the L5 vertebrae resulting in the sacroiliac ligaments disruption and stress concentration in the pelvic ring causing further fractures of the wing of ilium, pubis and ischium bones.
This results clearly explain the inconclusive findings about the second fracture that occurs in the pelvic area under a vertical impact load.
The applied seat padding foam significantly reduced the stresses transmitted to the anatomical structures, thereby avoiding the risk of pelvic fracture.
The analysis has proven that the auxetic polyurethane foam can be used as a good energy absorber.
Experiments on the fatigue of tendons have shown that cyclic loading induces failure at stresses lower than the ultimate tensile strength (UTS) of the tendons.
The number of cycles to failure (Nf) has been shown to be dependent upon the magnitude of the applied cyclic stress.
Utilizing data collected by Schechtman (1995), we demonstrate that the principles of Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics (LEFM) can be used to predict the fatigue behavior of tendons under cyclic loading for maximum stress levels that are higher than 10% of the ultimate tensile strength (UTS) of the tendon (the experimental results at 10% UTS did not fit with our equations).
LEFM and other FM approaches may prove to be very valuable in advancing our understanding of damage accumulation in soft connective tissues.
In this paper, rotating bending fatigue tests of 2024-T4 Al alloy with different oxide coatings were carried out.
Compared to the uncoated and previously reported oxide coatings of aluminum alloys, the fatigue strength is able to be enhanced by using a novel oxide coating with sealing pore technology.
These results indicate that the better the coating surface quality is, the more excellent the fatigue performance under rotating bending fatigue loading is.
The improvement on the fatigue performance is mainly because the fatigue crack initiation and the early stage of fatigue crack growth at the coating layer can be delayed after PEO coating with pore sealing.
Therefore, it is a so-called synergistic coating technology for various uses, including welding thermal cracks and filling micro-pores.
The effects of different oxide coatings on surface hardness, compressive residual stress, morphology and fatigue fracture morphology are discussed.
A critical compressive residual stress of about 95-100 MPa is proposed.
This study investigates the application of non-destructive testing based on the impedance theory in the cyclic fatigue evaluation of endodontic Ni-Ti rotary instruments.
Fifty Ni-Ti ProTaper instruments were divided into five groups (n=10 in Groups A to E).
Groups A to D were subjected to cyclic fatigue within an artificial canal (Group E was the control group).
The mean value of the total life limit (TLL), defined as the instrument being rotated until fracture occurred was found to be 104 s in Group A.
Each rotary instrument in Groups B, C and D were rotated until the tested instruments reached 80% (84 s), 60% (62 s) and 40% (42 s) of the TLL.
After fatigue testing, each rotary instrument was mounted onto a custom-developed non-destructive testing device to give the tip of the instrument a progressive sideways bend in four mutually perpendicular directions to measure the corresponding impedance value (including the resistance and the reactance).
The results indicated that the impedance value showed the same trend as the resistance, implying that the impedance was primarily affected by the resistance.
The impedance value for the instruments in the 80% and 60% TLL groups increased by about 6 mΩ (about 7.5%) more than that of the instruments in the intact and 40% TLL groups.
The SEM analysis result showed that crack striations were only found at the tip of the thread on the cracked surface of the instrument, consistent with the impedance measurements that found the impedance value of the cracked surface to be significantly different from those in other surfaces.
These findings indicate that the impedance value may represent an effective parameter for evaluating the micro-structural status of Ni-Ti rotary instruments subjected to fatigue loading.
Rapid characterization of high-cycle fatigue behaviour is of great interest, since conventional methods for developing S-N curves for longer fatigue lives are both costly in time and financial resources.
Ultrasonic fatigue testing offers a promising alternative by enabling S-N curve evaluation in a fraction of the time, often hundreds of times faster, due to its high testing frequencies.
Nevertheless, this technique presents specific challenges, including material overheating and limitations in specimens' geometry.
Most ultrasonic fatigue studies employ hourglass specimens; however, this geometry restricts the testing of sheets and thin-walled components, which are increasingly used for their reduced mass and high stiffness-to-mass ratio.
To overcome this limitation, the present work introduces a methodology for designing and testing flat specimens and corresponding gripping systems tailored to such components.
The procedure is demonstrated for an aluminium alloy (6082), and preliminary experimental fatigue results are presented and compared with literature.
A simple analytical model for damage evolution of bone fatigue is presented.
A probabilistic method for characterizing the damage accumulation in terms of microcracks for bone fatigue was developed.
The crack numerical density distributions were obtained from the Monte Carlo simulations with a Weibull distribution fit in this study.
The results predicted from the present model are compared with existing experimental data and discussed.
The quantitative relationship between stiffness loss, loading cycles and microdamage parameter developed in this study may be useful for fatigue life and failure stress predictions.
The interior defect-induced fracture of surface-hardened metallic materials in the long life region has become a key issue on engineering design.
In the present study, the axial loading test with fully reversed condition was performed to examine the fatigue property of a surface-carburized low alloy gear steel in the long life region.
Results show that this steel represents the duplex
A beta type titanium alloy, Ti-29Nb-13Ta-4.6Zr, was newly designed and developed for biomedical applications.
The new alloy contains non-toxic elements such as Nb, Ta, and Zr.
In the present study, phases that appeared in the new alloy through various aging treatments were characterized by hardness tests and microstructural observations in order to identify the phase transformation.
Fatigue properties of the new alloy were investigated.
Young's modulus and cyto-toxicity of the new alloy were also evaluated.
Precipitated phases distribute homogeneously over the whole specimen, and they are alpha phase, a small amount of omega phase, and beta phase when the new alloys are subjected to aging treatment at 673K for 259.2ks after solution treatment at 1063K for 3.6ks.
The fatigue strength of the new alloy subjected to aging at 673K for 259.2ks after solution treatment at 1063K for 3.6ks is much better than when subjected to other aging treatments.
In this case, the fatigue limit is around 700MPa. Young's modulus of the new alloy is much smaller than that of Ti-6Al-4V ELI.
The cyto-toxicity of the new alloy is equivalent to that of pure Ti.
Therefore, it is proposed that the new alloy, Ti-29Nb-13Ta-4.6Zr, will be of considerable use in biomedical applications.
The article presents research in the field of laser cladding of metal-matrix composite (MMC) coatings.
Nickel-based superalloys show attractive properties including high tensile strength, fatigue resistance, high-temperature corrosion resistance and toughness, which makes them widely used in the industry.
Due to the insufficient wear resistance of nickel-based superalloys, many scientists are investigating the possibility of producing nickel-based superalloys matrix composites.
For this study, the powder mixtures of Inconel 625 superalloy with 10, 20 and 40 vol.% of TiC particles were used to produce MMC coatings by laser cladding.
The titanium carbides were chosen as reinforcing material due to high thermal stability and hardness.
The multi-run coatings were tested using penetrant testing, macroscopic and microscopic observations, microhardness measurements and solid particle erosive test according to ASTM G76-04 standard.
The TiC particles partially dissolved in the structure during the laser cladding process, which resulted in titanium and carbon enrichment of the matrix and the occurrence of precipitates formation in the structure.
The process parameters and coatings chemical composition variation had an influence on coatings average hardness and erosion rates.
It would seem that the development of a stress fracture results from unsuccessful adaptation of bone to a change in its mechanical environment caused by repetitive loading.
It involves the physiological processes of microdamage production and remodelling.
Whether the initiating factor is microdamage production or activation of remodelling through direct effects of strain is unclear.
The remodelling process involves both the removal of bone which has become fatigue damaged or is extraneous to the requirements of the new loading environment, and the addition of new bone in an manner that is best suited to withstand the new mechanical strain.
Normally this process is well modulated and does not cause symptoms.
If the amount of bone removed is not sufficient to unduly weaken bone structure and the addition of new bone occurs sufficiently rapidly to correct any weakness before failure occurs or to repair microdamage, the process will successfully lead to a bone with appropriate material strength and geometry to withstand the new strain environment.
However, if there is imbalance between bone removal and replacement, together with accumulation of microdamage, signs and symptoms of a stress fracture may result.
Any factors which influence bone load, bone strength, or remodelling have the potential to result in a stress fracture.
Attention should be paid to the identification of these factors in an attempt to prevent this overuse injury in athletes.
To report on the factors associated with underperformance in a world-class male rower and the training intervention and supporting actions implemented to facilitate recovery for the Paris 2024 Olympic Games.
Amale single sculler (age: 29 y, height: 185 cm, and mass: 83 kg) suffered from underperformance, characterized by ∼5% to 7% drop in maximal and submaximal power-output indices, perceived severe fatigue, and emotional changes, likely associated with intensive training and competition, illness, environmental stress, and extensive international travel.
A22-week training program was implemented to facilitate recovery and regain fitness.
Training frequency progressed slowly (6-17 sessions/wk).
Volume remained relatively low throughout (∼14 h/wk), with a strong emphasis on low-intensity training (95% below the individual lactate threshold).
At week 13, a 9-week phase of low-volume (5%) high-intensity interval training was introduced: 4 weeks submaximal (4-6 × 3 min at 90% maximal aerobic power) and 5 weeks supramaximal (4-8 × 30 s at 120% maximal aerobic power or maximal effort) intervals for 3 sessions/week.
This was coupled with direct training supervision, continuous program adjustment based on the athlete's and coach's technical observations, and careful attention to the athlete's recovery, nutrition, sleep, and confidence.
The athlete successfully regained fitness and qualified for the Olympic finals, where he placed ninth (0.57% from the bronze-medal time).
A22-week training program including 95% low-intensity training and 5% high-intensity interval training, coupled with direct supervision and a focus on recovery, nutrition, sleep, and confidence, successfully brought the athlete from underperformance to Olympic final.
Titanium alloy parts are more and more widely used in the field of aerospace.
In order to improve the service life of titanium alloy parts, the response surface method was used to study surface residual stress and roughness under different turning parameters.
In addition, a mathematical model was established through multiple linear regression to determine the relationship between surface integrity parameters and fatigue life.
The test results indicate that the turning parameters have an effect on surface residual stress in the order of feed rate > depth of cut > cutting speed and on surface roughness in the order of feed rate > cutting speed > depth of cut.
The analysis results of surface integrity show that the residual compressive stress on the surface has the greatest impact on fatigue life, followed by surface roughness.
The fatigue life increases with the increase in residual compressive stress and decreases linearly with the increase in surface roughness.
The feed rate has a significant impact on residual stress and surface roughness.
Therefore, under the experimental conditions of this paper, the appropriate feed rate can be selected to ensure that the Ra < 2 μm and a large residual compressive stress is obtained.
Current bioactive modifications of Ti-based materials for promoting osteogenesis often decrease corrosion fatigue strength (σ
The laser shock peening (LSP) process using a Q-switched pulsed laser beam for surface modification has been reviewed.
The development of the LSP technique and its numerous advantages over the conventional shot peening (SP) such as better surface finish, higher depths of residual stress and uniform distribution of intensity were discussed.
Similar comparison with ultrasonic impact peening (UIP)/ultrasonic shot peening (USP) was incorporated, when possible.
The generation of shock waves, processing parameters, and characterization of LSP treated specimens were described.
Special attention was given to the influence of LSP process parameters on residual stress profiles, material properties and structures.
Based on the studies so far, more fundamental understanding is still needed when selecting optimized LSP processing parameters and substrate conditions.
A summary of the parametric studies of LSP on different materials has been presented.
Furthermore, enhancements in the surface micro and nanohardness, elastic modulus, tensile yield strength and refinement of microstructure which translates to increased fatigue life, fretting fatigue life, stress corrosion cracking (SCC) and corrosion resistance were addressed.
However, research gaps related to the inconsistencies in the literature were identified.
Current status, developments and challenges of the LSP technique were discussed.
Tendinopathic tissue has long been characterized by changes to collagen microstructure.
However, initial tendon damage from excessive mechanical loading-a hallmark of tendinopathy development-could occur at the nanoscale level of collagen fibrils.
Indeed, it is on this scale that tenocytes interact directly with tendon matrix, and excessive collagen fibril damage not visible at the microscale could trigger a degenerative cascade.
In this study, we explored whether initiation of tendon damage during cyclic loading occurs via a longitudinal compression-induced buckling mechanism of collagen fibrils leading to nanoscale kinkband development.
Two groups of tendons were cyclically loaded to equivalent peak stresses.
In each loading cycle, tendons in one group were unloaded to the zero displacement mark, while those in the other group were unloaded to a nominal level of tension, minimizing the potential for fibril buckling.
Tendons that were unloaded to the zero displacement mark ruptured significantly sooner during cyclic loading (1,446 ± 737 vs. 4,069 ± 1,129 cycles), indicating that significant fatigue damage is accrued in the low stress, toe region of the load-deformation response.
Ultrastructural analysis using scanning electron microscopy of tendons stopped after 1,000 cycles showed that maintaining a nominal tension slowed the accumulation of kinkbands, supporting a longitudinal compression-induced buckling mechanism as the basis for kinkband development.
Based on our results, we present a new descriptive model for the initiation of tendon damage during cyclic loading.
The so-called Compression of Unrecovered Elongation or CUE Model may provide useful insight into the development of tendinopathy. © 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society.
Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
J Orthop Res 36:467-476, 2018.
To investigate the mode of failure of a brand of nickel-titanium instruments separated during clinical use, by detailed examination of the fracture surface.
A total of 122 ProTaper S1 instruments were discarded from an endodontic clinic at a stomatological school in China over a period of 17 months; 28 had fractured.
These fractured instruments were ultrasonically cleaned, autoclaved and then examined under a scanning electron microscope.
From the lateral view the fracture was classified into 'torsional' or 'flexural'.
The specimens were then re-mounted and the presence of characteristics of shear failure and fatigue striations was recorded under high-power view of the fracture surface.
The difference in the mean lengths of fractured segment between the shear and fatigue groups was compared using Student's t-test.
Twenty-seven separated instruments were available for analysis.
Under low-power magnification, only two fell into the category of 'torsional' failure when examined laterally; the others appeared to be 'flexural'.
Close examination of the fracture surface revealed the presence of fatigue striations in 18 specimens.
Nine instruments (including the two putative 'torsional' failures above) fell into the shear fracture group, in which fatigue striations were absent or characteristics of shear failure of the material were found.
The mean length of fractured segments resulting from fatigue failure (4.3+/-1.9 mm) was significantly greater than that for shear failure (2.5+/-0.8 mm) (P<0.001, two-sample t-test).
Examination of the fracture surface at high magnification is essential to reveal features that may indicate the possible origin of cracks and the mode of material failure.
Macroscopic or lateral examination of separated instruments would fail to reveal the true mechanism of failure.
Fatigue seems to be an important reason for the separation of rotary instruments during clinical use.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune neurological disease characterized by chronic inflammation of the central nervous system (CNS), leading to demyelination, axonal damage, and symptoms such as fatigue and disability.
Although the cause of MS is not known, the infiltration of peripherally activated immune cells into the CNS has a key pathogenic role.
Accumulating evidence supports an important role of diet and gut microbiota in immune-mediated diseases.
Preclinical as well as clinical studies suggest a role for gut microbiota and dietary components in MS.
Here, we review these recent studies on gut microbiota and dietary interventions in MS and its animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.
We also propose directions for future research.
It is sparse and inconclusive that research on the subject whether the fatigue life of the structure will be reduced by shot peening strengthening before shot peen forming (S + F), and this study investigates accordingly.
First, the crack growth rate test of the machine-processing plate and shot peening strengthening before shot peen forming plate demonstrate that both plates' final crack growth rate and length are similar.
However, the test shows the "fluctuation phenomenon" of crack growth rate and the "intersection phenomenon" in the Paris curve.
This study is based on a self-developed simulation plugin for crack growth paths.
The results verify that "fluctuation" causes the differential distribution of the overall stress intensity factor in the strengthened (4.5% increase compared to machine-processing) and formed (9.8% decrease compared to machine-processing) crater areas of the shot peening strengthening before shot peen forming plate.
Comparing to the full coverage strengthening area, the forming area (only 30% coverage) in the early stage of growth as well as the gain amplitude of the residual stress in the late stage of growth gradually decrease and tend to be the same as that of the machine-processing, as validated by the "intersection phenomenon".
Many concrete structures, such as bridges and wind turbine towers, fail mostly due to the fatigue rapture and bending, where the cracks are initiated and propagate under cyclic loading.
Modeling the fracture process zone (FPZ) is essential to understanding the cracking behavior of heterogeneous, quasi-brittle materials such as concrete under monotonic and cyclic actions.
The paper aims to present a numerical modeling approach for simulating crack growth using a scaled boundary finite element model (SBFEM).
The cohesive traction law is explored to model the stress field under monotonic and cyclic loading conditions.
In doing so, a new constitutive law is applied within the cohesive response.
The cyclic damage accumulation during loading and unloading is formulated within the thermodynamic framework of the constitutive concrete model.
We consider two common problems of three-point bending of a single-edge-notched concrete beam subjected to different loading conditions to validate the developed method.
The simulation results show good agreement with experimental test measurements from the literature.
The presented analysis can provide a further understanding of crack growth and damage accumulation within the cohesive response, and the SBFEM makes it possible to identify the fracture behavior of cyclic crack propagation in concrete members.
A fracture mechanics approach was applied to estimate the life of a prosthesis injection moulded from short carbon fibre reinforced poly ether ether ketone.
Flexural modulus and strength, fracture toughness, fatigue endurance limit, fatigue crack growth rate and threshold stress intensity factor were determined.
The dimensions of the test pieces were selected to yield fibre orientation and fibre length distributions similar to those obtained in the prosthesis.
Stress levels generated in the prosthesis under different activities were estimated by conducting three-dimensional finite element analysis.
It was shown by a fracture mechanics approach that a fatigue failure due to the propagation of an embedded elliptical slit, under these stresses, would be unlikely for a crack length smaller than 1.85 mm. However, the cement would fail under the same conditions, irrespective of the type of the prosthesis employed.
Composed of multi-strand parallel high-strength wires or steel strands, the stayed cables have been widely used recently in stayed bridges or suspension bridges owing to their light weight and high bearing capacity, especially the steel strands.
Meanwhile, chloride-induced corrosion of steel strands is one of the most considerable factors for the durability of the stayed cable exposed to marine environments.
The fatigue caused by both cyclic loading and corrosion can affect the life of the steel strands.
Besides, the current studies related to the effects of the aforementioned two impact factors on the life of the steel strands either considered the fatigue only, or took the two impact factors into account separately.
The coupling effects of fatigue and corrosion on the life of the steel strands are required to be further explored and discussed.
Consequently, it is essential to create a model to predict the life of the steel strands with the coupling effects taken into consideration.
In this paper, an indoor physical experiment of the steel strand specimens exposed to marine tidal environment was carried out.
To avoid accidental errors, the whole specimens were divided into 20 groups, with each group having two steel wires with a 5 days, 10 days, and 15 days cycle for the test.
The corrosion of steel strands was observed at various exposure times and it was found that the pits were formed on the surface with the chloride ion erosion to the steel strands.
Deeper and sharper pits result in greater pitting-local stress and a shorter fatigue life, which is also the main reason for reducing the carrying capacity of the steel strands.
However, a detailed description for this problem is lacking in current domestic and foreign literature, because the pit is hard to predict owing to its complex nature.
In order to simulate the evolution of the pits, the stochastic pitting-corrosion model was set up by the neural network method to evaluate the pit evolutions over time.
In addition, an empirical formula consisting of length-width ratios, length-depth ratios, and depth-to-width ratios of the pits was obtained to determine the stress concentration factor based on the multi-dimensional linear regression method.
The fatigue notch factor of components can be deduced by the stress concentration factor, and the life of the steel strands can be deduced by both of them.
The findings are expected to be useful in realistically predicting the durability of wire structures.
An investigation was carried out in order to study the fretting fatigue behavior of an AlSi9Cu2Mg aluminum alloy.
The fretting fatigue tests of AlSi9Cu2Mg were performed using a specially designed testing machine.
The failure mechanism of fretting fatigue was explored by studying the fracture surfaces, fretting scars, fretting debris, and micro-hardness of fretting fatigue specimens using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), and micro Vickers hardness test techniques.
The experimental results show that the fretting fatigue limit (42 MPa) is significantly reduced to approximately 47% of the plain fatigue limit (89 MPa) under 62.5 MPa contact pressure.
Furthermore, the fretting fatigue life decreases with increasing alternating stress and increasing contact pressure.
The examination results suggest that the stress concentrates induced by oxidation-assisted wear on the contact interface led to the earlier initiation and propagation of crack under the fretting condition.
Single-leg hopping is an atypical, yet convenient, method of ambulation for individuals who have sustained unilateral lower limb-loss.
Hopping is generally discouraged by therapists but many patients report hopping, and the potential deleterious effects of frequent hopping on knee joint health remains unclear.
Mechanical fatigue due to repeated exposures to increased or abnormal loading on the intact limb is thought to be a primary contributor to the high prevalence of knee osteoarthritis among individuals with unilateral lower limb amputation.
We aimed to compare knee joint mechanics between single-leg hopping and walking at self-selected paces among individuals with unilateral lower limb-loss, and estimated the associated probability of knee cartilage failure.
Thirty-two males with traumatic unilateral lower limb-loss (22 transtibial, 10 transfemoral) hopped and walked at a self-selected pace along a 15-m walkway.
Peak knee moments were input to a phenomenological model of cartilage fatigue to estimate the damage and long-term failure probability of the medial knee cartilage when hopping vs. walking.
We estimate that each hop accumulates as much damage as at least 8 strides of walking (p < 0.001), and each meter of hopping accumulates as much damage as at least 12 m of walking (p < 0.001).
The 30-year failure probability of the medial knee cartilage exceeded a "coin-flip" chance (50%) when performing more than 197 hops per day.
Although a convenient mode of ambulation for persons with unilateral lower limb-loss, to mitigate risk for knee osteoarthritis it is advisable to minimize exposure to single-leg forward hopping.
Low-carbon steels are commonly used in welded steel structures and are exposed to various fatigue conditions, depending on the application.
We demonstrate that the various transitions in the fracture mode during fatigue testing can be distinguished by their different cyclic response curves and microstructural features after fracture.
Fractography, surface damage micrographs, and microstructural evolution clearly indicated the transition of the fracture modes from high-cycle to low-cycle, extremely low-cycle fatigue, and monotonic behavior.
The high-cycle fatigue mode showed initial cyclic softening, followed by cyclic stabilization, and showed inclusion-induced crack initiation at fish-eyes, while the low-cycle fatigue mode showed initial cyclic hardening followed by cyclic stabilization, where fractography images showed obvious striations.
In addition, the extremely low-cycle fatigue mode showed no cyclic stabilization after initial cyclic hardening, which was characterized by quasi-cleavage fractures with a few micro-dimples and transgranular cracking, while the monotonic fracture mode predominantly showed micro-dimples.
Recent introduction of shape memory (SM) nickel-titanium (NiTi) alloy into endodontics is a major breakthrough.
Although the flexibility of these instruments was enhanced, fracture of rotary endodontic instruments during instrumentation is an important challenge for the operator.
Implementation of supplementary manufacturing methods that would improve the fatigue life of the instrument is desirable.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of dry cryogenic treatment (CT) conditions on the microstructure of martensitic SM NiTi alloy.
Experiments were conducted on Ni-51 wt% Ti-49 wt% SM alloy.
Five cylindrical specimens and five sheet specimens were subjected to different CT conditions: Deep CT (DCT) 24 group: -185°C; 24 h, DCT 6 group: -185°C; 6 h, shallow CT (SCT) 24 group: -80°C, 24 h, SCT 6 group: -80°C, 6 h and control group.
Microstructure of surface was observed on cylindrical specimens with an optical microscope and scanning electron microscope at different magnifications.
Subsurface structure was analyzed on sheet specimens using X-ray diffraction (XRD).
Microstructures of all SM NiTi specimens had equiaxed grains (approximately 25 μm) with well-defined boundaries and precipitates.
XRD patterns of cryogenically treated specimens revealed accentuation of austenite and martensite peaks.
The volume of martensite and its crystallite size was relatively more in DCT 24 specimen.
DCT with 24 h soaking period increases the martensite content of the SM NiTi alloy without altering the grain size.
To improve the selectivity of closed cracks for objects other than cracks in ultrasonic imaging, we propose an extension of a novel imaging method, namely, subharmonic phased array for crack evaluation (SPACE) as well as another approach using the subtraction of responses at different external loads.
By applying external static or dynamic loads to closed cracks, the contact state in the cracks varies, resulting in an intensity change of responses at cracks.
In contrast, objects other than cracks are independent of external load.
Therefore, only cracks can be extracted by subtracting responses at different loads.
In this study, we performed fundamental experiments on a closed fatigue crack formed in an aluminum alloy compact tension (CT) specimen using the proposed method.
We examined the static load dependence of SPACE images and the dynamic load dependence of linear phased array (PA) images by simulating the external loads with a servohydraulic fatigue testing machine.
By subtracting the images at different external loads, we show that this method is useful in extracting only the intensity change of responses related to closed cracks, while canceling the responses of objects other than cracks.
Microdamage accumulated through sustained periods of cyclic loading or single overloading events contributes to bone fragility through a reduction in stiffness and strength.
Monitoring microdamage in vivo remains unattainable by clinical imaging modalities.
As such, there are no established computational methods for clinical fracture risk assessment that account for microdamage that exists in vivo at any specific timepoint.
We propose a method that combines multiple clinical imaging modalities to identify an indicative surrogate, which we term 'hidden porosity', that incorporates pre-existing bone microdamage in vivo.
To do so, we use the third metacarpal bone of the equine athlete as an exemplary model for fatigue induced microdamage, which coalesces in the subchondral bone.
N = 10 metacarpals were scanned by clinical quantitative computed tomography (QCT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
We used a patch-based similarity method to quantify the signal intensity of a fluid sensitive MRI sequence in bone regions where microdamage coalesces.
The method generated MRI-derived pseudoCT images which were then used to determine a pre-existing damage (D
Three-dimensional porous foams and aerogels with high compressibility and elasticity hold great promise for applications in pressure sensing, electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding, and thermal insulation.
However, their widespread application is often hindered by compromised structural stability and inadequate fatigue resistance under repeated compression.
Herein, a sustainable "top-down" cell wall reconfiguration strategy is proposed to fabricate highly elastic, fatigue-resistant, and electrically conductive lamellar wood sponge from natural balsa wood.
This strategy involves the conversion of the intrinsic cellular structure of wood into an arch-shaped lamellar architecture reinforced by chemical cross-linking, followed by coating the lamellar scaffold with conductive polypyrrole (PPy) via in situ polymerization.
The resulting PPy-coated cross-linked wood sponge (CWS@PPy) demonstrates reversible compressibility, excellent fatigue resistance (∼3.5% plastic deformation after 10,000 cycles at 40% strain).
The strain-induced conductivity changes in CWS@PPy enable tunable EMI shielding effectiveness under cyclic compression and also facilities high-sensitivity pressure sensing (0.72 kPa
The interfacial strength of secondary osteons from the diaphysis of the Thoroughbred equine third metacarpal was evaluated using the fiber pushout test.
The pushout was performed on 300-500 microm sections of 4x4x15 mm bone blocks machined from four anatomic regions of the cortex.
Pushout strength was evaluated from proximal to distal location within the diaphysis on four osteon types classified under polarized light on adjacent histologic sections from each block.
The shear strength of the interfaces were estimated from shear lag theory.
Differences were found in the interfacial strength of osteons based on appearance under polarized light with bright field having the highest interfacial strength (40.3 MPa).
The lowest strength was found in the dark field osteons (22.8 MPa).
The dorsal region had the highest shear strength and toughness compared to all other regions.
The cement line and interlamellar interfaces are similar in strength, but exhibit regional dependence--specifically, the palmar region strength is less (17.5 MPa) than the osteon interlamellar interfaces (30.4 MPa) and osteon type dependent (alternating significantly weaker than other types).
Histomorphometry revealed significant regional differences (p<0.0001) in osteon area fraction among the four osteon types as well as differences in the osteon diameter (p=0.01), with dorsal regions having larger osteons (170 microm) than the palmar region (151 microm).
Fatigue life and fracture toughness of Haversian bone are reported in the literature to be regionally dependent and are known to be associated with osteon pullout--an osteon interfacial phenomenon.
Therefore, the results presented in this study are important to further the understanding of the mechanisms of fragility and damage accumulation in cortical bone.
Wind turbine gearbox (WTG) bearings can fail prematurely, significantly affecting wind turbine operational availability and the cost of energy production.
The current most commonly accepted theory of failure mechanism is that the bearing subsurface is weakened by
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the viscoelastic characteristics of a group of soft denture liners by means of a creep test.
The materials evaluated included a silicone rubber base direct liner (Sofreliner MS), a polyolefin base indirect liner (Molteno S), and a conventional tissue conditioner (Coe Soft) as a control.
Cylindrical specimens of each material were fabricated using a metal mold.
Half of the specimens were subjected to mechanical fatigue with a 75-N load at 1.2 Hz for 200,000 cycles.
The creep test was performed on each material and condition with and without a fatigue test using low-load conditions to achieve a 10% strain on all specimens.
Viscosity and elasticity were measured, and the data were statistically analyzed using 1-way analysis of variance and Fisher's Protected Least Significant Difference (PLSD) test (p < 0.05).
The silicone rubber direct liner (1.31 +/- 2.1 MPa) exhibited a similar mean elastic property as the conventional tissue conditioner (0.90 +/- 0.22 MPa) and an intermediate viscosity between the conventional tissue conditioner (0.11 +/- 0.01 GPa. s) and polyolefin base indirect liner (9.84 +/- 1.08 GPa. s).
The elasticity did not change for polyolefin and silicone rubber after the fatigue process.
Significant differences in the viscosity of silicone rubber were seen with and without fatigue testing (p < or = 0.05).
The silicone rubber was as soft as the tissue conditioner and softer than the polyolefin liner.
The stiffer the material, the lower the permanent deformation observed.
A scanning electron microscopy study is reported of the nature and morphology of fracture surfaces in pyrocarbons commonly used for the manufacture of mechanical heart-valve prostheses.
Specifically, silicon-alloyed low-temperature-isotropic (LTI)-pyrolytic carbon is examined, both as a coating on graphite and as a monolithic material, following overload, stress corrosion (static fatigue), and cyclic fatigue failures in a simulated physiological environment of 37 degrees C Ringer's solution.
It is found that, in contrast to most metallic materials yet in keeping with many ceramics, there are no distinct fracture morphologies in pyro-carbons which are characteristic of a specific mode of loading; fracture surfaces appear to be identical for both catastrophic and subcritical crack growth under either sustained or cyclic loading.
We conclude that caution should be used in assigning the likely cause of failure of pyrolytic carbon heart-valve components using fractographic examination.
To classify and understand the mechanisms of surface damages and fracture mechanisms of sternal wires, explanted stainless steel sternal wires were collected from patients with sternal dehiscence following open-heart surgery.
Surface alterations and fractured ends of sternal wires were examined and analyzed.
Eighty fractured wires extracted from 25 patients from January 1999 to December 2003, with mean implantation interval of 55+/-149 days (range 5-729 days) after cardiac surgery, were studied by various techniques.
The extracted wires were cleaned and the fibrotic tissues were removed.
Irregularities and fractured ends were assayed by a scanning electron microscopy.
After stereomicroscopy and documentation, the explants were cleaned with 1% sodium hypochlorite to remove the blood and tissues and was followed by cleaned with deionized water and alcohol.
The explants were examined by stereomicroscopy, and irregularities on surface and fracture surfaces of sternal wires were assayed by scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDAX) and X-ray mapping.
The explants with surrounding fibrotic tissue were stained and examined with stereomicroscopy and transmission electronic microscopy.
Corrosion pits were found on the surface of explanted sternal wires.
EDAX and X-ray mapping examinations revealed diminution of nickel concentration in the severely corroded pits on sternal wires.
A feature of transgranular cracking was observed for stress corrosion cracking and striation character for typical corrosion fatigue was also identified.
TEM examination of tissue showed the metallic particles in phagolysosomes of macrophages inside the surrounding sternal tissue.
The synergic effect of hostile environment and the stress could be the precursors of failures for sternal wires.
Online monitoring of the fatigue damage process of A7N01 aluminum alloy base metal and weld seam was conducted based on acoustic emission (AE) and digital microscopic imaging technology.
The AE signals were recorded during the fatigue tests and analyzed using the AE characteristic parameter method.
Fatigue fracture was observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to analyze the source mechanism of AE.
The AE results show that the AE count and rise time can effectively predict the initiation of fatigue microcracks in A7N01 aluminum alloy.
The digital image monitoring results of a notch tip verified the prediction of fatigue microcracks using the AE characteristic parameters.
In addition, the AE characteristics of the A7N01 aluminum alloy under different fatigue parameters were studied, and the relationships between the AE characteristic values of the base metal and weld seam and the crack propagation rate were calculated using the seven-point recurrence polynomial method.
These provide a basis for predicting the remaining fatigue damage in the A7N01 aluminum alloy.
The present work indicates that AE technology can be used to monitor the fatigue damage evolution of welded aluminum alloy structures.
Beta titanium alloy Ti-35Nb-6Ta-7Zr-0.7O (wt%) was developed as a material intended for the manufacturing of a stem of a hip joint replacement.
This alloy contains only biocompatible elements and possesses a very high yield strength already in the cast condition (900 MPa).
However, the porosity, large grain size and chemical inhomogeneity reduce the fatigue performance below the limits required for utilization in the desired application.
Two methods of hot working, die forging and hot rolling, were used for processing of this alloy.
Microstructural evolution, tensile properties and fatigue performance of the hot worked material were investigated and compared to the cast material. Microstructural observations revealed that porosity is removed in all hot-worked conditions and the grain size is significantly reduced when the area reduction exceeds 70%.
Static tensile properties were improved by both processing methods and ultimate tensile strength (UTS) of 1200 MPa was achieved.
Fatigue results were more reproducible in the hot rolled material due to better microstructural homogeneity, but forging leads to an improved fatigue performance.
Fatigue limit of 400 MPa was achieved in the die-forged condition after 70% of area reduction and in the hot rolled condition after 86% of area reduction.
Bone as most of living tissues is able, during its entire lifetime, to adapt its internal microstructure and subsequently its associated mechanical properties to its specific mechanical and physiological environment in a process commonly known as bone remodelling.
Bone is therefore continuously renewed and micro-damage, accumulated by fatigue or creep, is removed minimizing the risk of fracture.
Nevertheless, bone is not always able to repair itself completely.
Actually, if bone repairing function is slower than micro-damage accumulation, a type of bone fracture, usually known as "stress fracture", can finally evolve.
In this paper, we propose a bone remodelling continuous model able to simulate micro-damage growth and repair in a coupled way and able therefore to predict the occurrence of "stress fractures".
The biological bone remodelling process is modelled in terms of equations that describe the activity of basic multicellular units.
The predicted results show a good correspondence with experimental and clinical data.
For example, in disuse, bone porosity increases until an equilibrium situation is achieved.
In overloading, bone porosity decreases unless the damage rate is so high that causes resorption or "stress fracture".
P-texture effect on the fatigue crack propagation (FCP) resistance in an Al-Cu-Mg alloy containing a small amount of Ag, is investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and electron back scattering diffraction (EBSD).
Results shows that the high intensity P-texture sheet has lower σ 0.2 / σ b , lower FCP rate and higher damage tolerance than random texture sheet.
Fracture analysis indicates that the striations spacing of high intensity P-texture sheet is much smaller than that of random texture sheet and it has a rougher fatigue fracture surface, which causes a significant roughness induced crack closure (RICC) effect.
The calculation results manifest that high intensity P-texture sheet possesses a higher crack closure level reaching 0.73 as compared to random texture sheet (only 0.25).
The statistical analysis results reveal the P-grains have large twist angle of 105⁻170° and tilt angle of 5⁻60° with neighboring grains, which is similar to Goss-grains.
This is the fundamental reason that P-texture sheet has the same FCP resistance and induces fatigue crack deflection as Goss-texture sheet.
Additionally, the most {111} slipping planes of P-grains are distributed in the range of 30⁻50° deviating from transverse direction of the sheet.
This results in more {111} slipping planes to participate in cyclic plastic deformation, which is beneficial to reduce fatigue damage accumulation and improve the damage tolerance of Al-Cu-Mg-Ag alloy.
This article explores the subtle effects of surfaces and interfaces on the mechanical properties of bulk metallic alloys using three examples: environmental effects on fatigue life, hydrogen embrittlement effects on the ductility of intermetallics, and the role of coherent precipitates in the toughness of steels.
It is demonstrated that the marked degradation of the fatigue life of metals is due to the strong chemisorption of adsorbates on exposed slip steps that are formed during fatigue deformation.
These adsorbates reduce the reversibility of slip, thus accelerating fatigue damage in a chemically active gas environment.
For certain intermetallic alloys such as Ni(3)Al and Ni(3)Fe, the ductility depends on the ambient gas composition and the atomic ordering in these alloys, both of which govern the complex surface chemical reactions taking place in the vicinity of crack tips.
Finally, it is shown that local stresses at a coherent precipitate-matrix interface can activate dislocation motion at low temperatures, thus improving the fracture toughness of bulk alloys such as steels at cryogenic temperatures.
These examples illustrate the complex interplay between surface chemistry and mechanics, often yielding unexpected results.
The effects of stress ratio (
Axial loading tests with stress ratios
The correlative light-electron fractography technique combines correlative microscopy concepts to the extended depth-from-focus reconstruction method, associating the reliable topographic information of 3-D maps from light microscopy ordered Z-stacks to the finest lateral resolution and large focus depth from scanning electron microscopy.
Fatigue striations spacing analysis can be precisely measured, by correcting the mean surface tilting with the knowledge of local elevation data from elevation maps.
This new technique aims to improve the accuracy of quantitative fractography in fatigue fracture investigations.
Bone damage removal and callus formation in response to fatigue loading are essential to prevent fractures.
Periostin (Postn) is a matricellular protein that mediates adaptive response of cortical bone to loading.
Whether and how periostin influences damage and the injury response to fatigue remains unknown.
We investigated the skeletal response of Postn(-/-) and Postn(+/+) mice after fatigue stimulus by axial compression of their tibia.
In Postn(+/+) mice, cracks number and surface (CsNb, CsS) increased 1h after fatigue, with a decrease in strength compared to non-fatigued tibia.
At 15 days, CsNb had started to decline, while CtTV and CtBV increased in fatigued vs non-fatigued tibia, reflecting a woven bone response that was present in 75% of the fatigued bones.
Cortical porosity and remodelling also prominently increased in the fatigued tibia of Postn(+/+) mice.
At 30 days, paralleling a continuous removal of cortical damage, strength of the fatigued tibia was similar to the non-fatigue tibia.
In Postn(-/-) mice, cracks were detectable even in the absence of fatigue, while the amount of collagen crosslinks and tissue hardness was decreased compared to Postn(+/+).
Fatigue significantly increased CsNb and CsS in Postn(-/-), but was not associated with changes in CtTV and CtBV, as only 16% of the fatigued bones formed some woven bone.
Cortical porosity and remodelling did not increase either after fatigue in Postn(-/-), and the level of damage remained high even after 30 days.
As a result, strength remained compromised in Postn(-/-) mice.
Contrary to Postn(+/+), which osteocytic lacunae showed a change in the degree of anisotropy (DA) after fatigue, Postn(-/-) showed no DA change.
Hence periostin appears to influence bone materials properties, damage accumulation and repair, including local modeling/remodeling processes in response to fatigue.
These observations suggest that the level of periostin expression could influence the propensity to fatigue fractures.
We study the fatigue fracture of disordered materials by means of computer simulations of a discrete element model.
We extend a two-dimensional fracture model to capture the microscopic mechanisms relevant for fatigue and we simulate the diametric compression of a disc shape specimen under a constant external force.
The model allows us to follow the development of the fracture process on the macrolevel and microlevel varying the relative influence of the mechanisms of damage accumulation over the load history and healing of microcracks.
As a specific example we consider recent experimental results on the fatigue fracture of asphalt.
Our numerical simulations show that for intermediate applied loads the lifetime of the specimen presents a power law behavior.
Under the effect of healing, more prominent for small loads compared to the tensile strength of the material, the lifetime of the sample increases and a fatigue limit emerges below which no macroscopic failure occurs.
The numerical results are in a good qualitative agreement with the experimental findings.
This study examines the hypothesis that microstructure plays a critical role in the accumulation of strength-degrading damage in dental ceramics.
A series of micaceous glass-ceramics crystallized from a common glass composition, using heat treatments to increase the diameter and aspect ratio of mica platelets, is used as a model ceramic system.
Damage modes are investigated by Hertzian contact testing.
Four-point bend tests on indented specimens quantify the influence of single-cycle and multi-cycle damage on strength.
Two competing damage modes are observed: fracture, by tensile-induced cone cracking at the macroscopic level; and quasi-plastic deformation, by shear-induced yield at the microscopic level.
The quasi-plastic mode becomes more dominant as the microstructures become coarser and more elongate.
Bend tests show severe strength losses in the finer grain structures where cone cracking dominates, but relatively small losses in the coarser grain structures where quasi-plasticity dominates.
Whereas natural strengths decline with increasing crystallization temperature, the strengths after indentation damage attain a maximum at intermediate crystallization temperatures.
Multiple-cycle contact loading reduces strengths even further, and at relatively low indentation loads, indicating susceptibility to fatigue.
Finite element modelling is carried out to evaluate the stress components that drive the damage modes.
Microstructure is confirmed to be a controlling factor in determining the nature and degree of strength-impairing damage accumulation in dental ceramics.
The Hertzian test provides a means of characterizing such damage in the context of clinical function.
Fatigue damage prediction is essential for safety of contemporary offshore energy industrial projects, like offshore wind turbines, that are to be designed for sufficiently long operational period of time, with minimal operational disruptions.
Offshore structures being designed to withstand environmental loadings due to winds and waves.
Due to accumulated fatigue damage, offshore wind floating turbines may develop material cracks in their critical locations sooner than expected.
Dataset needed for an accurate assessment of fatigue damage may be produced by either extensive numerical modeling, or direct measurements.
However, in reality, temporal length of the underlying dataset being typically too short to provide an accurate calculation of direct fatigue damage and fatigue life.
Hence, the objective of this work is to contribute to the development of novel fatigue assessment methods, making better use of limited underlying dataset.
In this study, in-situ environmental conditions were incorporated to assess offshore FWT tower base stresses; then structural cumulative fatigue damage has been assessed.
Novel deconvolution extrapolation method has been introduced in this study, and it was shown to be able to accurately predict long-term fatigue damage.
The latter technique was validated, using artificially reduced dataset, and resulted in fatigue damage that was shown to be close to the damage, calculated from the full original underlying dataset.
Recommended method has been shown to utilize available dataset much more efficiently, compared to direct fatigue estimation.
Accurate fatigue assessment of offshore wind turbine structural characteristics is essential for structural reliability, design, and operational safety.
The aim of this study was to determine the Weibull and slow crack growth (SCG) parameters of bulk-fill resin based composites.
The strength degradation over time of the materials was also assessed by strength-probability-time (SPT) analysis.
Three bulk-fill [Tetric EvoCeram Bulk Fill (TBF); X-tra fil (XTR); Filtek Bulk-fill flowable (BFL)] and a conventional one [Filtek Z250 (Z250)] were studied.
Seventy five disk-shaped specimens (12mm in diameter and 1mm thick) were prepared by inserting the uncured composites in a stainless steel split mold followed by photoactivation (1200mW/cm(2)/20s) and storage in distilled water (37°C/24h).
Degree of conversion was evaluated in five specimens by analysis of FT-IR spectra obtained in the mid-IR region.
The SCG parameters n (stress corrosion susceptibility coefficient) and σf0 (scaling parameter) were obtained by testing ten specimens in each of the five stress rates: 10(-2), 10(-1), 10(0), 10(1) and 10(2)MPa/s using a piston-on-three-balls device.
Weibull parameter m (Weibull modulus) and σf0 (characteristic strength) were obtained by testing additional 20 specimens at 1MPa/s.
Strength-probability-time (SPT) diagrams were constructed by merging SCG and Weibull parameters.
BFL and TBF presented higher n values, respectively (40.1 and 25.5).
Z250 showed the highest (157.02MPa) and TBF the lowest (110.90MPa) σf0 value.
Weibull analysis showed m (Weibull modulus) of 9.7, 8.6, 9.7 and 8.9 for TBF, BFL, XTR and Z250, respectively.
SPT diagram for 5% probability of failure showed strength decrease of 18% for BFL, 25% for TBF, 32% for XTR and 36% for Z250, respectively, after 5 years as compared to 1 year.
The reliability and decadence of strength over time for bulk-fill resin composites studied are, at least, comparable to conventional composites.
BFL shows the highest fatigue resistance under all simulations followed by TBF, while XTR was at par with Z250.
Leaf springs are critical components for the railway vehicle safety in which they are installed.
Although these components are produced in high-strength alloyed steel and designed to operate under cyclic loading conditions in the high-cyclic fatigue region, their failure is still possible, which can lead to economic and human catastrophes.
The aim of this document was to precisely characterise the mechanical crack growth behaviour of the chromium-vanadium alloyed steel representative of leaf springs under cyclic conditions, that is, the crack propagation in mode I.
The common fatigue crack growth prediction models (Paris and Walker) considering the effect of stress ratio and parameters such as propagation threshold, critical stress intensity factor and crack closure ratio were also determined using statistical methods, which resulted in good approximations with respect to the experimental results.
Lastly, the fracture surfaces under the different test conditions were analysed using SEM, with no significant differences to declare.
As a result of this research work, it is expected that the developed properties and fatigue crack growth prediction models can assist design and maintenance engineers in understanding fatigue behaviour in the initiation and propagation phase of cracks in leaf springs for railway freight wagons.
Fracture of the femoral stem is the cause of ~1 % of revisions after total hip arthroplasty.
The risk increases intrinsically with modularity, whereby modularity is particularly useful in revision arthroplasty.
We present 7 cases of failure of a specific modular, tapered, fluted, titanium alloy Revitan stem and analyse the different failure modes.
Retrospective review of all Revitan stems revised at our institutions due to implant failure and analysis of clinical presentation, diagnostic workup, and failure mode.
The retrieved components were analyzed by optical and scanning electron microscopy.
A total of 7 cases were included.
There was a significant time lag between symptom onset and correct diagnosis.
Conventional radiographs and low-dose CT scans (CT scout imaging) were decisive for diagnosis.
All failures occurred at the level of the connection between the proximal component and the distal part of the stem.
Three different failure modes were identified: loosening of the proximal component, fatigue fracture of the connection pin, and distal loosening of the connection pin.
No alterations of the microstructure or deviation from manufacturing specifications regarding dimensions were observed.
Failure was caused by mechanical overload.
Conventional radiographs are the mainstay in identifying failed modular stems.
Repeated radiographs and low-dose CT scans may be helpful additions.
No single modification of the connection will address all possible failure modes.
Modularity of revision stems offers advantages up until insertion of the definitive stem.
Monoblock definitive stems might overcome the potential mechanical weaknesses of modularity and should be considered in relatively young, heavy and active patients.
Cyclic stresses are often related to the premature mechanical failure of metallic biomaterials.
The complex interaction between fatigue and corrosion in the physiological environment has been subject of many investigations.
In this context, microstructure, heat treatments, plastic deformation, surface finishing and coatings have decisive influence on the mechanisms of fatigue crack nucleation and growth.
Furthermore, wear is frequently present and contributes to the process.
However, despite all the effort at elucidating the mechanisms that govern corrosion fatigue of biomedical alloys, failures continue to occur.
This work reviews the literature on corrosion-fatigue-related phenomena of Ti alloys, surgical stainless steels, Co-Cr-Mo and Mg alloys.
The aim was to discuss the correlation between structural and surface aspects of these materials and the onset of fatigue in the highly saline environment of the human body.
By understanding such correlation, mitigation of corrosion fatigue failure may be achieved in a reliable scientific-based manner.
Different mitigation methods are also reviewed and discussed throughout the text.
It is intended that the information condensed in this article should be a valuable tool in the development of increasingly successful designs against the corrosion fatigue of metallic implants.
Corrosion and crack defects often exist at the same time in pipelines.
The interaction impact between these defects could potentially affect the growth of the fatigue crack.
In this paper, a crack propagation method is proposed for pipelines with interacting corrosion and crack defects.
The finite element models are built to obtain the Stress Intensity Factors (SIFs) for fatigue crack.
SIF interaction impact ratio is introduced to describe the interaction effect of corrosion on fatigue crack.
Two approaches based on extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) are proposed in this paper to predict the SIF interaction impact ratio at the deepest point of the crack defect for pipelines with interacting corrosion and crack defects.
Crack size, corrosion size and the axial distance between these two defects are the factors that have an impact on the growth of the fatigue crack, and so they are considered as the input of XGBoost models.
Based on the synthetic samples from finite element modeling, it has been proved that the proposed approaches can effectively predict the SIF interaction impact ratio with relatively high accuracy.
The crack propagation models are built based on the proposed XGBoost models, Paris' law and corrosion growth model.
Sensitivity analyses regarding corrosion initial depth and axial distance between defects are performed.
The proposed method can support pipeline integrity management by linking the crack propagation model with corrosion size, crack size and the axial distance.
The problem of how the interaction between corrosion and crack defects impacts crack defect growth is investigated.
Aluminum alloys under long-term service or repetitive stress are prone to small fatigue cracks (FCs) with arbitrary orientations, necessitating eddy current probes with focused magnetic fields and directional selectivity for reliable detection.
This study presents a flexible printed circuit board (FPCB) probe with a double-layer planar excitation coil and a double-layer differential receiving coil.
The excitation coil employs a reverse-wound design to enhance magnetic field directionality and focusing, while the differential receiving coil improves sensitivity and suppresses common-mode noise.
The probe is optimized by adjusting the excitation coil overlap and the excitation-receiving coil angles to maximize eddy current concentration and detection signals.
Finite element simulations and experiments confirm the system's effectiveness in detecting surface cracks of varying sizes and orientations.
To further characterize these defects, two time-domain features are extracted: the peak-to-peak value (ΔP), reflecting amplitude variations associated with defect size and orientation, and the signal width (ΔW), primarily correlated with defect angle.
However, substantial overlap in their value ranges for defects with different parameters means that these features alone cannot identify which specific parameter has changed, making prior defect classification using a Transformer-based approach necessary for accurate quantitative analysis.
The proposed method demonstrates reliable performance and clear interpretability for defect evaluation in aluminum components.
Creep and fatigue tests were performed on human femoral cortical bone and the results were compared to a cumulative damage model for bone fracture.
Fatigue tests in tension, compression, and reversed loading with a tensile mean stress were conducted at 2 Hz and 0.02 Hz.
Load frequency had a strong influence on the number of cycles to failure but did not influence the total time to failure.
Bone displayed poor creep-fracture properties in both tension and compression.
The fracture surfaces of the tensile creep specimens are distinctly different than those of the compressive specimens.
The results suggest that tensile cyclic loading creates primarily time-dependent damage and compressive cyclic loading creates primarily cycle-dependent damage.
However, data for load histories involving both tensile and compressive loading indicate lower time to failure than predicted by a simple summation of time-dependent and cycle-dependent damage.
The present paper illustrates the application of infrared thermal measurements for the investigation of crack initiation point and crack propagation in the high-cycle and the very high-cycle fatigue range of cast AlSi7Mg alloy (A356).
The influence of casting defects, their location, size and amount was studied both by fractography and thermography.
Besides internal and surface fatigue crack initiation as a further crack initiation type multiple fatigue crack initiation was observed via in situ thermography which can be well correlated with the results from fractography obtained by SEM investigations.
In addition, crack propagation was studied by the development of the temperature measured via thermography.
Moreover, the frequency influence on high-cycle fatigue behaviour was investigated.
The presented results demonstrate well that the combination of fractography and thermography can give a significant contribution to the knowledge of crack initiation and propagation in the VHCF regime.
Nanoindentation measurements were conducted to investigate the high-cycle response of 316L stainless steel in bending fatigue.
Hardness variation owing to the gradient flexure stress amplitude for different curvatures was plotted along with the thickness and length, respectively.
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was subsequently conducted to explore the deformation characteristics in multiple layers, which had cyclic gradient stress, on the cross-section of specimens.
The nanoindentation results indicated that the cyclic hardening response of 316L stainless steel is correlated with the level of stress amplitude in the high-cycle fatigue (HCF) regime.
Furthermore, an analytical model was proposed to clarify the relationship between nanohardness and stress amplitude.
Finally, the evolution of damage accumulation due to irreversible plastic deformation is continuous during stress reduction up to the neighboring zone at the neutral surface of the flexure beam in some individual grains.
Ceramic coatings were prepared by plasma electrolytic oxidation (PEO) on four different surface roughness' of Ti-6Al-4V alloys.
The effects of substrate roughness on the microstructure and fatigue behavior were investigated.
Microstructural characterization was carried out by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and a laser scanning confocal microscope.
In addition, an X-ray diffractometer (XRD) and a U-X360 stress meter were used to analyze the phase composition and residual stress properties of the coatings.
The microstructure of coatings revealed the growth mechanism of the coatings.
The larger and deeper grooves of the substrate promoted the nucleation and growth of the PEO coating, but the defects (cracks and pores) of the oxide layer became more serious.
The fatigue test indicated a significant influence of substrate roughness on the fatigue life under low cyclic stress.
The fatigue damage of PEO coatings decreases as the surface roughness of substrates decreases because of the synergistic effect of the coating surface defects and coating/substrate interface roughness.
Substrate roughness influences the quality and fatigue performance of the oxide layer.
The long-term behavior of the stem-cement interface is one of the most frequent topics of discussion in the design of cemented total hip replacements, especially with regards to the process of damage accumulation in the cement layer.
This effect is analyzed here comparing two different situations of the interface: completely bonded and debonded with friction.
This comparative analysis is performed using a probabilistic computational approach that considers the variability and uncertainty of determinant factors that directly compromise the damage accumulation in the cement mantle.
This stochastic technique is based on the combination of probabilistic finite elements (PFEM) and a cumulative damage approach known as B-model.
Three random variables were considered: muscle and joint contact forces at the hip (both for walking and stair climbing), cement damage and fatigue properties of the cement.
The results predicted that the regions with higher failure probability in the bulk cement are completely different depending on the stem-cement interface characteristics.
In a bonded interface, critical sites appeared at the distal and medial parts of the cement, while for debonded interfaces, the critical regions were found distally and proximally.
In bonded interfaces, the failure probability was higher than in debonded ones.
The same conclusion may be established for stair climbing in comparison with walking activity.
A high-strength concrete and mortar subjected to compressive fatigue loading were comparatively investigated using experimental and computational techniques.
The focus of the investigations was on the influence of the coarse aggregate in high-strength concrete.
Accordingly, the fatigue behaviour was analysed experimentally using the macroscopic damage indicators strain, stiffness and acoustic emission hits.
The results clearly show differences in the fatigue behaviour between the concrete and the mortar, especially at the lower stress level investigated.
The basalt coarse aggregate here improves the fatigue behaviour of the concrete.
Indication of a negative effect can be seen at the higher stress level.
A finite element approach with a gradient-enhanced equivalent strain-based damage model combined with a fatigue model was used for the computational simulation of the fatigue behaviour.
The damage model includes a differentiation between tension and compression.
The fatigue model follows the assumption of the reduction in the material strength based on the accumulated gradient-enhanced equivalent strains.
A random distribution of spherically shaped basalt aggregates following a given particle size distribution curve is used for the simulation of concrete.
The comparison of the experimentally and computationally determined strain developments of the concrete and mortar shows very good agreement.
Fretting fatigue is a common type of failure of the bearing cap bolted joints.
This paper proposes a methodology to analyze the fretting fatigue mechanism of the bearing cap bolted joint.
A biaxially loading system was designed to simulate fretting fatigue failure under typical engine working condition.
Meanwhile, a submodel was developed in the finite element calculation to analyze the contact status and stress distribution of the structural models.
The test result shows that long inclined cracks (about 650 μm long, orientation at 17°-34°) initiate at the middle region of the contact interface.
As the increase of the bolt pretension load (from 6000 N to 10,000 N), the crack initial location is getting away from the bolt screw, and the fretting fatigue lives is increasing (from 7.8 × 10(5) to 6.0 × 10(6)).
With the fatigue phenomenon and the stress field analysis result, it concludes that the crack initiation is governed by the maximum shear stress; the bolt pretension load and the additional rotate torque caused by the bearing load are the two main factors which affect the fretting fatigue mechanism of the bearing cap bolted joints.
It is beneficial to fretting fatigue lives of the bearing cap joints by increasing the bolt pretension load and restraining the oscillation of the bearing cap.
A hot isostatically pressed specimen of the A357 alloy in T6 condition has been tested for fatigue performance in situ.
During testing, multiple small cracks were observed during the first cycle, both in proximity to and far from the stress concentration.
These cracks have competed to form a propagating crack, forming multiple crack paths initially.
Once the propagating crack has been established, it has chosen paths from multiple cracks that have opened around the tip to grow further.
All small cracks observed to open have been attributed to bifilms, i.e., liquid metal damage.
It is imperative to develop processes that minimize liquid metal damage to enhance the fatigue performance of aluminum alloy castings.
The paper presents the influence of in-plane constraints defined by T-stress on the behavior of a crack subjected to cyclic loading.
In the analysis, a modified boundary layer model approach was used in which the cohesive model was introduced.
In the simulations, the constant maximum value of the stress intensity factor and four levels of T-stress were defined.
The model was subjected to ten repeated stress cycles.
Based on the results obtained, an analysis of the effect of the in-plane constraint on selected aspects of crack behavior was made.
The strong influence of in-plane constraint applied in the model on the crack closure and the fatigue crack growth rate was proven.
Since the in-plane constraint described the influence of geometry on the stress field surrounding the fatigue crack tip in real geometry, the results suggested that it is possible to create precise formulae connecting the level of the in-plane constraint with the effective stress intensity factor range and to incorporate the T-stress or Q-stress level in the Paris law.
As the popularity of volar locked plate fixation for distal radius fractures has increased, so have the number and variety of implants, including variations in plate design, the size and angle of the screws, the locking screw mechanism, and the material of the plates.
Carbon-fiber reinforced polyetheretherketone (CFR-PEEK) plate features similar biomechanical properties to metallic plates, representing, therefore, an optimal alternative for the treatment of distal radius fractures.
Three different materials-composed plates were evaluated: stainless steel volar lateral column (Zimmer); titanium DVR (Hand Innovations); CFR-PEEK DiPHOS-RM (Lima Corporate).
Six plates for each type were implanted in sawbones and an extra-articular rectangular osteotomy was created.
Three plates for each material were tested for load to failure and bending stiffness in axial compression.
Moreover, 3 constructs for each plate were evaluated after dynamically loading for 6000 cycles of fatigue.
The mean bending stiffness pre-fatigue was significantly higher for the stainless steel plate.
The titanium plate yielded the higher load to failure both pre and post fatigue.
After cyclic loading, the bending stiffness increased by a mean of 24% for the stainless steel plate; 33% for the titanium; and 17% for the CFR-PEEK plate.
The mean load to failure post-fatigue increased by a mean of 10% for the stainless steel and 14% for CFR-PEEK plates, whereas it decreased (-16%) for the titanium plate.
Statistical analysis between groups reported significant values (p<001) for all comparisons except for Hand Innovations vs. Zimmer bending stiffness post fatigue (p=.197).
The significant higher load to failure of the titanium plate, makes it indicated for patients with higher functional requirements or at higher risk of trauma in the post-operative period.
The CFR-PEEK plate showed material-specific disadvantages, represented by little tolerance to plastic deformation, and lower load to failure.
Due to the accumulated fatigue damage in steel-concrete continuous composite box beams, a plastic hinge forms in the negative moment zone, leading to significant internal force redistribution.
To investigate the internal force redistribution in the negative moment zone and confirm structural safety under fatigue loading, experimental tests were conducted on nine steel-concrete continuous composite box beams: eight of them under fatigue testing, one of them under static testing.
The test results showed that the moment modification coefficient at the middle support increases during the fatigue process.
When approaching fatigue failure, an increase of 1.0% in the reinforcement ratio or 0.27% in the stirrup ratio results in a reduction of 13% in the moment modification coefficient.
Furthermore, a quadratic function model was proposed to calculate the moment modification coefficient of a steel-concrete continuous composite box beam during the fatigue process, which exhibited good agreement with the experimental results.
Finally, we verified the applicability of the plastic hinge rotation theory for steel-concrete continuous composite box beams under fatigue loading.
This work was undertaken in an attempt to ascertain the generic characteristics of fatigue behavior of friction-stir welded aluminum alloys.
To this end, different alloy grades belonging to both the heat-treatable and non-heat-treatable types in both the cast and wrought conditions were studied.
The analysis was based on the premise that the fatigue endurance of sound welds (in which internal flaws and surface quality are not the major issues) is governed by residual stress and microstructure.
Considering the relatively low magnitude of the residual stresses but drastic grain refinement attributable to friction-stir welding, the fatigue performance at relatively low cyclic stress was deduced to be dictated by the microstructural factor.
Accordingly, the fatigue crack typically nucleated in relatively coarse-grained base material zone; thus, the fatigue strength of the welded joints was comparable to that of the parent metal. At relatively high fatigue stress, the summary (i.e., the cyclic-plus residual-) stress may exceed the material yield strength; thus, the fatigue cracking should result from the preceding macro-scale plastic deformation.
Accordingly, the fatigue failure should occur in the softest microstructural region; thus; the fatigue strength of the welded joint may be inferior to that of the original material.
Fretting fatigue is a common problem for modular orthopedic implants which may lead to mechanical failure of the implant or inflammatory tissue responses due to excessive release of wear debris.
Compressive residual stresses at the contacting surfaces may alleviate the problem.
Here we investigate the potential of a surface enhancement method known as low plasticity burnishing (LPB) to increase the fretting fatigue resistance of bone-anchored implants for skeletal attachment of limb prostheses.
Rotation bending fatigue tests performed on LPB treated and untreated test specimens demonstrate that the LPB treatment leads to statistically significantly increased resistance to fretting fatigue (LPB treated test specimens withstood on average 108,780 load cycles as compared with 37,845 load cycles for untreated test specimens, p = 0.004).
LPB treated test specimens exhibited less wear at the modular interface as compared with untreated test specimens.
This surface treatment may lead to reduced risk of fretting induced component failure and a reduced need for revision of implant system componentry.
Metallic biomaterials enable successful reconstruction and fixation of skeletal tissues by supporting repair, load-bearing function, and anatomical alignment in foot and ankle surgery.
However, the unique anatomic and biomechanical demands of this region, combined with challenging pathologies such as flatfoot and Charcot neuroarthropathy, present distinct challenges, with effective intervention requiring targeted biomaterial solutions and precise indications.
Furthermore, metallic biomaterials currently represent the most predominant and clinically validated fixation systems in foot and ankle surgical reconstructions, while also generating the largest body of outcome-based evidence.
This review summarizes and discusses their contemporary applications, outcomes, limitations, unmeet needs, and future directions based on clinical literature between 2020 and 2024.
Emerging innovations, including 3D-printed titanium implants for patient-specific reconstructions, surface-engineered alloys designed to improve osseointegration, with infection mitigation properties for at risk patient populations, and the exploration of bioresorbable/biointegrative magnesium, as well as non-metallic alternative materials (e.g. polymerics) were examined.
Persistent unmet needs identified in the literature include hardware challenges in osteoporotic bone and neuropathic patients, ion leeching, cyclic fatigue, economic burden, imaging artifact interference, and lack of long-term data or clinical trials on innovative implant designs and manufacturing approaches.
Lastly, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) imaging of titanium, nitinol, and stainless steel is provided to offer an analysis on biomaterial-specific microstructural features, such as surface roughness and porosity, that play a role in influencing tissue integration, corrosion behavior, and mechanical performance in reconstructive surgeries.
The Translational Potential of this Article: This review provides clinically actionable guidance for selecting metallic biomaterials tailored to the biomechanical and pathological demands of foot and ankle surgery, supporting evidence-based decisions of selection of hardwares, improved fixation strategies, and reduced complication rates.
It also adds recent insights to inform the development and optimization of next-generation devices based on patient- and site-specific requirements, such as 3D-printed constructs and surface-engineered implants, designed to enhance fusion, reconstruction, and limb salvage outcomes.
Ever since their introduction, nickel-titanium (NiTi) alloys have continued to revolutionize the field of endodontics.
They have considerable advantages over the conventional stainless steel file in terms of mechanical properties.
However, despite of their superior mechanical properties, NiTi alloys still pose some risk of fracture.
Consequently, there has been considerable research conducted to investigate the mechanisms behind the occurrence of these procedural errors.
Since the last decade, different proprietary processing procedures have been introduced to further improve the mechanical properties of NiTi alloys.
These treatments include thermal, mechanical, electropolishing, and recently introduced electric discharge machining.
The main purpose of these treatments is to impart a more martensitic phase into the files at normal body temperature, so that the maximum advantage of flexibility can be obtained.
These heat-treated instruments also possess improved cyclic fatigue resistance when compared to conventional NiTi alloys.
NiTi alloys can be subclassified as the instruments mainly containing austenitic phase (conventional NiTi, M-wire, R-phase), and those containing martensitic phase (controlled memory wire, ProTaper Gold, and Vortex Blue).
Instruments based on austenitic alloys possess superelastic properties due to the stress-induced martensitic transformation.
Contrary to this, martensitic alloys can easily be deformed due to phase transformation, and they can demonstrate the shape memory effect when heated.
This review discusses the different phase transformations and heat treatments that the NiTi instruments undergo.
The medium-term fatigue behaviour of calf pericardium (similar to the one used to manufacture cardiac bioprostheses valve leaflets) has been studied. 96 samples were tested under fatigue subjecting them to biaxial stress at 1 Hz frequency for 5000 cycles, in 4 series of 24 samples, at several supra-physiological mean pressures and pressure amplitudes.
Short-term damage parameters such as the accumulated energy consumption in 10 cycles (E10) and medium-term ones after 5000 cycles like total energy consumption (Et) and maximum displacement of the membrane (Dt) have been evaluated.
E10 showed exponential growing tendency with pressure and linear tendency with pressure amplitude when only one parameter curve was plotted.
Similar results were found when analysing Et and Dt.
Linear correlation models were established between E10 and Et and E10 and Dt.
Similar results were achieved in the four series, with excellent determination coefficients.
The results confirm that the fatigue behaviour from the very first cycles of the test can predict the medium-term behaviour of the tissue by means of measurement of suitable damage markers.
The tendencies observed between the parameters seem to show that the results could have been the same ones if the test had been performed at physiological pressures and amplitudes.
This work opens the door to a non-destructive test of the tissue prior to employ it to manufacture valve leaflets.
Metallic materials are widely used for fabricating medical implants due to their high specific strength, biocompatibility, good corrosion properties, and fatigue resistance.
Recently, titanium (Ti) and its alloys, as well as stainless steel (SS), have attracted attention from researchers because of their biocompatibility properties within the human body; however, improvements in mechanical properties while keeping other beneficial properties unchanged are still required.
Severe plastic deformation (SPD) is a unique process for fabricating an ultra-fine-grained (UFG) metal with micrometer- to nanometer-level grain structures.
SPD methods can substantially refine grain size and represent a promising strategy for improving biological functionality and mechanical properties.
This present review paper provides an overview of different SPD techniques developed to create nano-/ultra-fine-grain-structured Ti and stainless steel for improved biomedical implant applications.
Furthermore, studies will be covered that have used SPD techniques to improve bone cell proliferation and function while decreasing bacterial colonization when cultured on such nano-grained metals (without resorting to antibiotic use).
The purpose of this study was to determine the failure mechanism of clinically failed Gates Glidden (GG) drills.
Eleven retrieved GG drills (sizes #1 to #3) which fractured during root canal preparation were collected and the fracture location was recorded based on macroscopic observation.
All fracture surfaces were investigated by a SEM.
Then the fractured parts were embedded in acrylic resin and after metallographic preparation, the microstructure and elemental composition was evaluated by SEM and EDS.
The Vickers hardness (HV) of all specimens was also determined.
Macroscopic examination and SEM analysis showed that the drills failed near the hand piece end by torsional fatigue with fatigue cracks initiating at several locations around the circumference and propagating toward the center.
Final fracture followed by a tensile overloading at the central region of cross section.
Microstructural analysis, hardness measurements and EDS show that the drills are made of a martensitic stainless steel like AISI 440C.
Based on the findings of this study, clinicians should expect fatigue fracture of GG drills that have small size during root canal preparation.
Selection of a more fatigue resistant stainless steel alloy and enhancing the instrument design might reduce the incidence of quasi-cleavage fracture on GG drills.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is the most common inherited cause of bone fragility (approximately 1 in 16 000).
People with OI suffer bone fragility causing fractures, pain and deformity; sarcopenia causing fatigue and poor endurance; aortic root dilatation and hearing loss.
No drug currently has market authorisation to treat OI in Europe.
Current standard-of-care is multidisciplinary, with pharmacological interventions-primarily bisphosphonates-directed at increasing bone mass; however, such interventions are of equivocal efficacy.
The structural damage that can accumulate as a result of repeated fractures over time may not be reversible.
The lack of a treatment with clearly defined efficacy in terms of reducing fracture frequency or the sarcopenia, that is increasingly recognised in this condition, leads to the consideration of alternatives based on what is known about the molecular pathophysiology of the condition.
For reasons that are currently unclear, transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) pathway signalling is increased in OI, and both studies in mouse models and more recently also in humans suggest that reducing TGFβ pathway signalling could be of benefit in OI.
This demonstrator project tests the hypothesis that losartan, an antihypertensive agent known to reduce circulating TGFβ, will reduce bone turnover and bone loss and have a positive effect on muscle function and quality of life in adults and older adolescents with OI.
This is a phase 2/pilot, open-label, dose-escalating study.
This study aims to identify the effective dose for losartan in this population to inform the design of a pivotal phase III study.
The study aims to recruit 30 adolescents and adults aged 16 years and above with OI across secondary care study sites in the UK and Italy.
Participants will be recruited from the patient populations attending for treatment of OI at the participating hospital sites or referred by clinicians at the Participant Identification Centres (PIC sites).
Participants will be randomised to one of three 'final doses'-25, 50 or 75 mg losartan once daily.
All participants will start on 25 mg once daily.
Those assigned to higher 'final doses' will increase in 25 mg once daily increments on day 8 and day 15 following safety assessments.
The primary outcome measures are to establish the effective dose of losartan in OI patients, based on maximal reduction in the bone resorption marker carboxy-terminal crosslink of type I collagen telopeptide (CTX) over the 24-week period of the study.Secondary outcome measures are to determine the changes in proxy efficacy outcomes for bone (turnover, mass, architecture and strength) using blood tests, high-resolution peripheral quantitative CT (HRpQCT), dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and muscle (strength) using the 'Timed Up and Go' test.
In addition, the changes in quality of life, including pain and fatigue, will be evaluated by using a disease-specific tool (OI-QOL) and a validated generic tool (EQ-5D-5L-VAS).
In the UK, the study protocol and amendments have been approved by the London Bridge Research Ethics Committee (REC reference: 23/LO/015) and by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
In Italy, the study protocol and amendments have been approved by the Italian and European ethics and regulatory authorities (Clinical Trials Information System European Union (CTIS EU) portal according to EU Regulation 536/2014).
Final version of study protocol: Version 3.2, 05.03.2025.
Final results will be disseminated in peer-reviewed journals through local OI, orthopaedic and other relevant clinical networks and at national and international meetings.
Sheffield Children's National Health Service Foundation Trust (UK) and Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli (Italy) are the joint study sponsors.
While the effects of physical risk factors on MSD development have been a primary focus of musculoskeletal research, psychological stressors, and certain personal characteristics (e.g. ageing, sex, and obesity) are also associated with increased MSD risk.
The psychological and personal characteristics listed above share a common characteristic: all are associated with disruption of the body's neuroendocrine and immune responses resulting in an impaired healing process.
An impaired healing response may result in reduced fatigue life of musculoskeletal tissues due to a diminished ability to keep pace with accumulating damage (perhaps reparable under normal circumstances), and an increased vulnerability of damaged tissue to further trauma owing to the prolonged healing process.
Research in engineered self-healing materials suggests that decreased healing kinetics in the presence of mechanical loading can substantially reduce the fatigue life of materials.
A model of factors influencing damage accrual and healing will be presented.
Poly(ether-ether-ketone) (PEEK) has been used as a load bearing orthopaedic implant material with clinical success.
All of the orthopaedic applications contain stress concentrations (notches) in their design; however, little work has been done to examine the fatigue behavior of PEEK in the presence of a notch.
This work examines both stress-life (S-N) fatigue behavior and the fracture behavior of unfilled PEEK under tension-tension loading in circumferentially grooved round bar specimens with different elastic stress concentration factors.
It was found that the majority of the loading was elastic in nature, and that there was only a small portion on the lifetime where there was a detectable change in structural behavior prior to gross fracture.
Fractographic analysis via SEM further elucidated the potential fracture micromechanisms.
Additional analysis was conducted to estimate the percent of the lifetime spent in crack initiation vs. propagation, and it was found that the specimens spent the majority of the time in the crack initiation phase.
This study retrieved and analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDS) the failure of a single four-unit fixed partial denture (FPD).
Low SEM magnifications revealed a smooth/featureless fracture surface, indicating brittle fracture.
Higher magnifications revealed a small fatigue fracture region located on the inferior part of the connector.
EDS analysis indicated that the FPD alloy was gold-based.
Additionally, SEM showed segregation of small spherical particles at grain boundaries of the alloy, with high aluminum and oxygen content.
The particles, most likely retained aluminum, possibly resulted from sandblasting procedures for a scrap metal alloy, which was then recast into a new FPD.
It appears that the fracture was initiated in the oral cavity by fatigue crack formation, but the presence of Al₂O₃ particles facilitated alloy embrittlement and brittle fracture.
The stop-hole technique is a well-known strategy to extend the fatigue life of cracked components.
The ability to estimate fatigue life after the hole is important for safety reasons.
The objective here is to develop strategies for the accurate prediction of initiation and propagation life ahead of the stop-hole.
Experimental work was developed in a Compact-Tension (CT) specimen made of 7050-T7451 aluminium alloy and with a 3 mm diameter hole.
A total number of 625,000 load cycles were required to re-initiate the crack after the hole.
Crack initiation life after the hole was estimated using the Theory of Critical Distances combined with the Smith-Watson-Topper parameter.
The single-phase titanium ß-alloy Ti10V2Fe3Al (Ti-1023) has been widely used in the aerospace industry due to its unique mechanical properties, which include high fatigue strength and fracture toughness, as well as high corrosion resistance.
On the other hand, these unique properties significantly hinder the cutting processes of this material, especially those characterized by a closed machining process area, such as drilling.
This paper is devoted to the study of the short hole drilling process of the above-mentioned titanium alloy using direct measurements and numerical modeling.
Measurements of the cutting force components in the drilling process and determination of the resultant cutting force and total cutting power were performed.
The macro- and microstructure of chips generated during drilling were analyzed, and the dependence of the chip compression ratio and the distance between neighboring segments of serrated chips on cutting speed and drill feed was determined.
Experimental studies were supplemented by determining the temperature on the lateral clearance face of the drill's outer cutting insert in dependence on the cutting modes.
For the modeling of the drilling process using the finite element model, the parameters of the triad of component submodels of the numerical model were determined: the machined material model, the model of contact interaction between the tool and the machined material, and the fracture model of the machined material. The determination of these parameters was performed through the DOE sensitivity analysis.
The target values for performing this analysis were the total cutting power and the distance between neighboring chip segments.
The maximum deviation between the simulated and experimentally determined values of the resulting cutting force is no more than 25%.
At the same time, the maximum deviation between the measured values of the temperature on the lateral clearance face of the drill's outer cutting insert and the corresponding simulated values is 26.1%.
Superalloys are widely used in the aerospace field and are a typical difficult-to-cut material. When the PCBN tool is used to cut superalloys, there will be problems such as a large cutting force, a high cutting temperature, and gradual tool wear.
High-pressure cooling technology can effectively solve these problems.
Therefore, this paper carried out an experimental study of a PCBN tool cutting superalloys under high-pressure cooling and analyzed the influence of high-pressure coolant on the characteristics of the cutting layer.
The results show that the main cutting force can be reduced by 19~45% and 11~39% when cutting superalloys under high-pressure cooling compared with dry cutting and atmospheric pressure cutting, respectively, in the range of test parameters.
The surface roughness of the machined workpiece is less affected by the high-pressure coolant, but the high-pressure coolant can help reduce the surface residual stress.
The high-pressure coolant can effectively improve the chip's breaking ability.
In order to ensure the service life of PCBN tools, when cutting superalloys under high-pressure cooling the coolant pressure should not be too high, and 50 bar is more appropriate.
This provides a certain technical basis for the efficient cutting of superalloys under high-pressure cooling conditions.
Mechanical properties and slow crack growth (SCG) behavior of a 10Ce-TZP/Al2O3 nanocomposite currently developed as a biomaterial are considered.
Fracture toughness is determined for sharp, long (double torsion) and short (indentation) cracks and a good agreement is found between the two types of cracks.
The main toughening mechanism in the nanocomposite is the tetragonal to monoclinic phase transformation of the ceria-stabilized zirconia (Ce-TZP) phase.
Transformation at the surface of ground specimens leads to surface compressive induced stresses and an increase in strength.
Crack velocity curves (V-K(I) curves) are obtained under static and cyclic fatigue using the double torsion method.
The static V-K(I) curve in air reveals the three stages characteristic of stress corrosion with a threshold K(I0) approximately 4.5 MPa m(1/2) and a fracture toughness of 8.8 MPa m(1/2) significantly higher than those of currently used inert bioceramics (i.e., alumina and Y-TZP).
A crack growth accelerating effect is shown under cyclic loading, correlated with a decrease in the threshold.
However, the cyclic fatigue threshold (4 MPa m(1/2)) still stands above that of current biomedical grade alumina and zirconia.
We study theoretically the dynamical process of yielding in cyclically sheared amorphous materials, within a thermal elastoplastic model and the soft glassy rheology model.
Within both models we find an initially slow accumulation, over many cycles after the inception of shear, of low levels of damage in the form strain heterogeneity across the sample.
This slow fatigue then suddenly gives way to catastrophic yielding and material failure.
Strong strain localization in the form of shear banding is key to the failure mechanism.
We characterize in detail the dependence of the number of cycles N^{*} before failure on the amplitude of imposed strain, the working temperature, and the degree to which the sample is annealed prior to shear.
We discuss our finding with reference to existing experiments and particle simulations, and suggest new ones to test our predictions.
The main purpose of this paper is to propose, based on the literature review, a new multiaxial fatigue strain criterion, analogous to the Dang Van stress criterion, considering the maximum amplitude of the shear strain and volumetric strain.
The proposed strain criterion was successfully verified by fatigue tests in cyclic bending with torsion of specimens made of 2017A-T4 and 6082-T6 aluminum alloy.
The scatter of test results for cyclic bending and the combination of cyclic bending and torsion is included in the scatter of tests for the cyclic torsion of the analyzed materials.
Fracture surfaces for respective bending and torsion in the 6082-T6 aluminum test with strain control showed that, in the case of bending, cracks can be observed that develop from the surface of the specimen towards the bending plane.
They are inclined from the fatigue crack at an angle of 45° in relation to the crack surface and the remaining cracks come from the static fracture.
In the case of torsion, however, a conical fracture at 45° and a static torsion zone can be observed.
The nonlinear spring model combined with dislocation dipole theory was applied to describe the acoustic nonlinearity during the fatigue process in metals.
The spring stiffness changes with fatigue degree.
For the early stage, spring stiffness approaches infinity, and the heavier nonlinearity mainly results from the increase of dislocation density.
Further fatigue leads to the occurrence of micro-cracks, during which spring stiffness begins to decrease.
Abundant micro-crack sprouting accelerates the crack's expansion, and spring stiffness drops quickly, which causes the obvious decline in the transmitted harmonic amplitudes.
Solutions obtained from the nonlinear wave equation with dislocation terms were added into the spring model.
Varying spring stiffness was chosen for simulating the fatigue process.
Then, nonlinear harmonic variation during this process was observed, which was classified into three stages: (I) the early dislocation fatigue stage; (II) the micro-crack sprouting stage; (III) the crack expansion stage.
Nonlinear acoustic measurements were carried out on an aluminum alloy specimen during its fatigue process until cracks could be seen clearly.
Harmonic variations in experiments can also be classified into the same three stages as the numerical results, which provides a theoretical and experimental reference for fatigue evaluation in metals using the nonlinear acoustic method.
Reducing frictional losses in response to the energy agenda will require use of less viscous lubricants causing hydrodynamically-lubricated bearings to operate with thinner films leading to "mixed lubrication" conditions in which a degree of direct interaction occurs between surfaces protected only by boundary tribofilms.
The paper considers the consequences of thinner films and mixed lubrication for concentrated contacts such as those occurring between the teeth of power transmission gears and in rolling element bearings.
Surface fatigue in gears remains a serious problem in demanding applications, and its solution will become more pressing with the tendency towards thinner oils.
The particular form of failure examined here is micropitting, which is identified as a fatigue phenomenon occurring at the scale of the surface roughness asperities.
It has emerged recently as a systemic difficulty in the operation of large scale wind turbines where it occurs in both power transmission gears and their support bearings.
Predictive physical modelling of these contacts requires a transient mixed lubrication analysis for conditions in which the predicted lubricant film thickness is of the same order or significantly less than the height of surface roughness features.
Numerical solvers have therefore been developed which are able to deal with situations in which transient solid contacts occur between surface asperity features under realistic engineering conditions.
Results of the analysis, which reveal the detailed time-varying behaviour of pressure and film clearance, have been used to predict fatigue and damage accumulation at the scale of surface asperity features with the aim of improving understanding of the micropitting phenomenon.
The possible consequences on fatigue of residual stress fields resulting from plastic deformation of surface asperities is also considered.
The majority of studies on the evolution and function of feeding in sharks have focused primarily on the movement of cranial components and muscle function, with little integration of tooth properties or function.
As teeth are subjected to sometimes extreme loads during feeding, they undergo stress, strain, and potential failure.
As attributes related to structural strength such as material properties and overall shape may be subjected to natural selection, both prey processing ability and structural parameters must be considered to understand the evolution of shark teeth.
In this study, finite element analysis was used to visualize stress distributions of fossil and extant shark teeth during puncture, unidirectional draw (cutting), and holding.
Under the loading and boundary conditions here, which are consistent with bite forces of large sharks, shark teeth are structurally strong.
Teeth loaded in puncture have localized stress concentrations at the cusp apex that diminish rapidly away from the apex.
When loaded in draw and holding, the majority of the teeth show stress concentrations consistent with well designed cantilever beams.
Notches result in stress concentration during draw and may serve as a weak point; however they are functionally important for cutting prey during lateral head shaking behavior.
As shark teeth are replaced regularly, it is proposed that the frequency of tooth replacement in sharks is driven by tooth wear, not tooth failure.
As the tooth tip and cutting edges are worn, the surface areas of these features increase, decreasing the amount of stress produced by the tooth.
While this wear will not affect the general structural strength of the tooth, tooth replacement may also serve to keep ahead of damage caused by fatigue that may lead to eventual tooth failure.
As wind turbines trend toward larger sizes, higher rotational speeds, and extended service lives, higher demands are emerging for the dimensional accuracy, mechanical properties, and service reliability of the main shaft bearings.
The hot bulging process is a critical process in bearing ring manufacturing.
The stress-strain and dimensional evolution during the hot bulging process are crucial for the fatigue life and dimensional accuracy of rings with non-circular cross-sections.
Therefore, based on the residual stress field from rolling as an initial condition, this paper established a coupled finite element model for the entire rolling-to-bulging process of GCr15SiMn bearing steel rings and verified the accuracy of the model.
A stepwise rotation hot bulging process was innovatively designed.
The stresses, strains, and deformation rates of the rings were thoroughly evaluated at different steps of the bulging process.
Additionally, the effect of the bulge amount on the stress-strain uniformity and dimensional accuracy of the fabricated rings was also evaluated.
Results indicate that based on the stepwise rotation hot bulging process conducted at 870-930 °C, when the first-step bulging amount is 1.50 mm, the secondary and third-step amounts are both 0.50 mm, and the bulging speed is 1.00 mm/s, while the roundness error of ring #3 stabilizes within 0.28-0.35 mm. The standard deviation of the axial equivalent strain was decreased by 92%, and the stress peak was also decreased by 39%.
Above all, the stepwise rotation hot bulging process is an effective approach to improve the distribution uniformity of the stress-strain and the dimensional consistency of the bearing rings.
This paper provides theoretical foundations and process guidance for the precision forming of large wind turbine bearing rings with non-standard sections.
The formation of white etching cracks (WECs) in steel rolling element bearings can lead to the premature rolling contact fatigue (RCF) failure mode called white structure flaking.
Driving mechanisms are still debated but are proposed to be combinations of mechanical, tribochemical and electrical effects.
A number of studies have been conducted to record and map WECs in RCF-tested samples and bearings failed from the field.
For the first time, this study uses serial sectioning metallography techniques on non-hydrogen charged test samples over a range of test durations to capture the evolution of WEC formation from their initiation to final flaking.
Clear evidence for subsurface initiation at non-metallic inclusions was observed at the early stages of WEC formation, and with increasing test duration the propagation of these cracks from the subsurface region to the contact surface eventually causing flaking.
In addition, an increase in the amount of associated microstructural changes adjacent to the cracks is observed, this being indicative of the crack being a prerequisite of the microstructural alteration.
The etiology of focal distribution of atherosclerotic lesions has received much attention for many years.
Current theories focus on mechanical factors such as low endothelial shear stress as an initiating factor for atherosclerosis formation.
However, some evidences revealed that it could not be initiator of endothelial damage.
We hypothesize that endothelial damage results from the fatigue effect of pulse pressure on endothelial layer.
In our model, heart rate, magnitude of pulse pressure, geometry and chemical environment of endothelial layer determine the rate of endothelial damage accumulation, and low endothelial shear stress acts as promoter of atherosclerosis rather than initiator.
If this model is correct, it can provide a framework for speculating about the risk of endothelial stress rupture in the population as a whole and in patients undergone arterial grafting procedures, and how this might be reduced.
Accurate knowledge of the plastic zone of fatigue cracks is a very direct and effective way to quantify the damage of components subjected to cyclic loads.
In this work, we propose an ultra-fine experimental characterisation of the plastic zone based on Vickers micro-indentations.
The methodology is applied to different compact tension (CT) specimens made of aluminium alloy 2024-T351 subjected to increasing stress intensity factors.
The experimental work and sensitivity analysis showed that polishing the surface to #3 μm surface finish and applying a 25 g-force load for 15 s produced the best results in terms of resolution and quality of the data.
The methodology allowed the size and shape of both the cyclic and the monotonic plastic zones to be visualised through 2D contour maps.
Comparison with Westergaard's analytical model indicates that the methodology, in general, overestimates the plastic zone.
Comparison with S355 low carbon steel suggests that the methodology works best for alloys exhibiting a high strain hardening ratio.
Articular cartilage (AC) is a biological tissue that allows the distribution of mechanical loads and movement of joints.
The presence of these mechanical loads influences the behavior and physiological condition of AC.
The loads may cause damaged by fatigue through injuries due to repeated accumulated stresses.
The aim of this work is to introduce a phenomenological mathematical model of damage caused by mechanical action.
It is considered that tissue failure is a consequence of chondrocyte death and matrix loss, taking into account factors modifying fatigue resistance such as age, body mass index (BMI) and metabolic activity.
The model was numerically implemented using the finite elements method and the results obtained allowed us to predict tissue failure at different loading frequencies, different damage sites and variations in damage magnitude.
Qualitative concordance between numerical results and experimental data led us to conclude that the model may be useful for physicians and therapists as a prediction tool for prescribing physical exercise and prognosis of joint failure.
Materials for orthopaedic implants can fail for several combined reasons: corrosion, fatigue and wear for metals, wear and creep for polymers, fracture for ceramics.
Some typical cases are analysed and it is demonstrated that ion implantation improves metals and polymers used for joint prosthesis.
Implantations of nitrogen, oxygen and argon ions modify the structure of a 2-500 nm thick layer in the materials.
The results of friction tests on the couple metal-polymer are correlated with the surface properties.
High-temperature components in power plants may fail due to creep and fatigue.
Creep damage is usually accompanied by the nucleation, growth, and coalescence of grain boundary cavities, while fatigue damage is caused by excessive accumulated plastic deformation due to the local stress concentration.
This paper proposes a multiscale numerical framework combining the crystal plastic frame with the meso-damage mechanisms.
Not only can it better describe the deformation mechanism dominated by creep from a microscopic viewpoint, but also reflects the local damage of materials caused by irreversible microstructure changes in the process of creep-fatigue deformation to some extent.
In this paper, the creep-fatigue crack initiation analysis of a modified 12%Cr steel (X12CrMoWvNBN10-1-1) is carried out for a given notch specimen.
It is found that creep cracks usually initiate at the triple grain boundary junctions or at the grain boundaries approximately perpendicular to the loading direction, while fatigue cracks always initiate from the notch surface where stress is concentrated.
In addition to this, the crack initiation life can be quantitatively described, which is affected by the average grain size, initial notch size, stress range and holding time.
The objective of the research is to investigate the elements of routine sandblast technique on the evolution of bending strength of dental infiltrated Al2O3 ceramics and the underlying erosion mechanism.
The plane specimens of an infiltrated ceramic were manufactured, polished and then tested under the modified pen-like sandblasting apparatus (90 degrees erosive angle and 10 mm sandblasting distance), with different grit sizes, working pressure and disposing time.
Half of samples were selected randomly and sintered subsequently with Vitadur alpha veneering porcelain.
Before and after sintering, the three-point-bending strengths was measured, and the surfaces of dental porcelain were observed with SEM and LCSM.
The bending strength of ceramics decreased significantly after sandblast as compared with that of empty control group.
After the procedure of sintering the veneering porcelain, the descending evolution of bending strength slowed down.
Under the present manufacturing conditions, grit size effect is prominent among those correlative elements of sand grit size, working pressure and disposing time.
And fatigue cracking characterizes the mechanism of erosion of dental infiltrated Al2O3 ceramics.
This paper is the first to reveal that the conventionally built aluminium alloy (AA) 7085-T7452 has mechanical properties, viz: a yield stress, ultimate strength, and an elongation to failure, that are similar to that of laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) built Scalmalloy
Tendinopathies are commonly attributable to accumulation of sub-rupture fatigue damage from repetitive use.
Data is limited to late stage disease from patients undergoing surgery, motivating development of animal models, such as ones utilizing treadmill running or repetitive reaching, to investigate the progression of tendinopathies.
We developed an in vivo model using the rat patellar tendon that allows control of the loading directly applied to the tendon.
This manuscript discusses the response of tendons to fatigue loading and applications of our model.
Briefly, the fatigue life of the tendon was used to define low, moderate and high levels of fatigue loading.
Morphological assessment showed a progression from mild kinks to fiber disruption, for low to high level fatigue loading.
Collagen expression, 1 and 3 days post loading, showed more modest changes for low and moderate than high level fatigue loading.
Protein and mRNA expression of Ineterleukin-1β and MMP-13 were upregulated for moderate but not low level fatigue loading.
Moderate level (7200 cycles) and 100 cycles of fatigue loading resulted in a catabolic and anabolic molecular profile respectively, at both 1 and 7 days post loading.
Results suggest unique mechanisms for different levels of fatigue loading that are distinct from laceration.
This study aimed to clarify the effect of a simulated body fluid (SBF) on the cyclic delamination behavior of a plasma-sprayed hydroxapatite (HAp) coating.
A HAp coating is deposited on the surfaces of surgical metallic materials in order to enhance the bond between human bone and such surfaces.
However, the HAp coating is susceptible to delamination by cyclic loading from the patient's gait.
Although hip joints are subjected to both positive and negative moments, only the effects of tensile bending stresses on vertical crack propagation behavior have been investigated.
Thus, the cyclic delamination behavior of a HAp coating was observed at the stress ratio R=-1 in order to determine the effects of tensile/compressive loading on the delamination behavior.
The delamination growth rate increased with SBF immersion, which decreased the delamination life.
Raman spectroscopy analysis revealed that the selective phase dissolution in the HAp coating was promoted at interfaces.
Finite element analysis revealed that the energy release rate Gmax showed a positive value even in cases with compressive loading, which is a driving force for the delamination of a HAp coating.
A prediction model for the delamination growth life was developed that combines a fracture mechanics parameter with the assumed stress-dependent dissolution rate.
The predicted delamination life matched the experimental data well in cases of lower stress amplitudes with SBF.
The multicomponent cold-recycled asphalt emulsion mixture (CRAEM) has the ability of antireflection cracking between the base and the bottom surface layer, but it has secondary compaction and residual void, which is not conducive to crack resistance and fatigue performance.
The application of high-frequency vibration mixing technology can reduce voids and improve crack resistance, but it is limited by the complexity of testing to determine the optimal mixing frequency.
The fractal dimension of gradation is deduced by fractal theory, and the prediction model for optimal frequency is proposed.
Dry, wet, freeze-thaw splitting tests, and rutting tests were employed to test the early mechanical properties of high-frequency vibration mixing specimens corresponding to different vibration accelerations, and mercury inclusion tests were utilized to compare the void distribution corresponding to the optimal mixing frequency and forced mixing, and to verify the prediction model for optimal frequency.
The results indicate that the high-frequency vibration mixing technology is able to benefit the initial cracking resistance (28.1% increase), moisture stability (11.2% increase), and high-temperature stability on the macro level on the optimal frequency.
Meanwhile, the void distribution structure can be optimized, reducing the proportion of harmful voids and increasing the proportion of transitional pores on the micro level.
However, the freeze-thaw resistance needs to be further studied.
This study reduces the number and cost of experiments to determine the optimal frequency, and provides theoretical guidance and technical support for the engineering application of the CRAEM.
Thermoelastic Stress Analysis (TSA) is one of the very few methods allowing the determination of a continuous stress distribution on the object's surface under variable loading conditions.
Such results provide a lot of valuable information in the field of technical condition assessment and residual life prediction.
In order to improve the accuracy of the TSA, the Lock-In signal processing method is implemented.
This research is aimed at verifying the effectiveness of this improvement and determining the TSA stress detection threshold, as it is important information in terms of the applicability of this method in the low-stress conditions encountered in considerations of fatigue of load-carrying structures.
A steel sample with a centrally located hole was subjected to cyclic loads to determine the threshold of stress detection and accuracy of TSA.
As a result of the research, the relationship between the magnitude of stress excitations and the underestimation of the measured stresses was developed.
Based on the conducted investigations, it was concluded that reasonable TSA results can be acquired for excitations that induce a temperature response above 10 mK (0.5 NEDT).
The presented field test example proves that in industrial applications reasonable results can be acquired for thermal responses below the NEDT of the IR camera.
It was concluded that it is possible to successfully implement TSA in low-stress applications (temperature response below NEDT).
Laying the strain gauge on the design areas of palatal base and frenum labiorum of complete dentures and simulating the different shapes of notch of frenums by the photoelastic mould.
The test of the base condition under static and dynamic load by electrical measurement method was carried out.
The longitudinal breaking line on the front part of the palatal base was first observed.
The causes of breaking may be due to: the weak effect of notch of frenum labiorum; stress concentration on the front part of the base; material fatigue caused by the repeated alternate force and the strength of base material reduced by unsuitable processing.
To determine if locking compression plates (LCP) are mechanically advantageous compared to low-contact dynamic compression plates (DCP) when used as a bridging plate in a synthetic model of osteoporotic bone.
Five synthetic bars (Synbone Osteoporotic bone) were initially tested in compression and the Young's modulus determined.
It was found to be comparable to that of tibial cancellous bone in an 80-year-old woman; thus, the synthetic bars were deemed usable to simulate some properties of osteoporotic bone.
Six bars were then instrumented with an 8-hole narrow large fragment DCP with six 4.5-mm cortical screws (placed in holes 1-3 and holes 6-8).
Six bars were instrumented with a narrow 8-hole LCP using four 5-mm locking screws (placed in the 1st, 3rd, 6th, and 8th holes).
In a third group, 6 synbone bars were instrumented with a narrow 8-hole large fragment DCP.
Cortical screws were placed in holes 2-3 and holes 6-7.
In holes 1 and 8, two 6.5 fully threaded cancellous screws were inserted.
A 1-cm osteotomy was created in the Synbone at the center of each plate to represent a comminuted fracture.
Initially, quasi-static testing was carried out on all specimens in compression to a maximum load of 450 N.
Then 4-point bend tests were carried out in two planes (0 degrees and 90 degrees) with the maximum bending moment at 3.5 Nm.
Finally, torsional testing was done to a maximum load of 3.5 Nm.
The specimens were then cycled in axial compression 350 N at 5 Hz for 30,000 cycles.
The static nondestructive tests were repeated.
The slope of the load deformation curve indicated the relative stiffness of the construct.
The slopes were determined pre- and postcycling and the loss of stiffness in each group compared.
Statistical analysis was carried out using the paired t-test.
The specimens were then loaded to failure in compression.
There was no statistical difference in the stiffness of the LCP or in the osteotomy gap postcycling.
All specimens in the DCP groups failed initial static testing in axial compression.
No fatigue testing could be undertaken in this group.
In a synthetic model, the LCP was mechanically superior to the DCP when used as a bridging plate and tested in axial compression.
Herein, we fabricated a low-melting-point Zr-16Ti-6Cu-8Ni-6Co eutectic filler based on a Zr-Ti-Cu-Ni filler to achieve effective joining of a Ti6Al4V (TC4) titanium alloy.
The temperature at which the brittle intermetallic compound (IMC) layer in the seam completely disappeared was reduced from 920 °C to 900 °C, which broadened the temperature range of the Zr-based filler, brazing the TC4 without a brittle IMC layer.
The shear strength of the Zr-16Ti-6Cu-8Ni-6Co brazed joint increased by 113% more than that of the Zr-16Ti-9Cu-11Ni brazed joint at 900 °C.
The proportion of β-Ti in the seam of the Zr-16Ti-6Cu-8Ni-6Co brazed joint increased by 21.31% compared with that of the Zr-16Ti-9Cu-11Ni brazed joint.
The nano-indentation results show that the elastic modulus of the β-Ti (143 GPa) in the interface is lower than that of the α-Ti (169 GPa) and (Ti,Zr)
The aim of the present work was to evaluate high-strength bolt corrosion fatigue based on metallographic examinations.
The conducted tests were focused on the analysis of damaged martensitic bolts.
It was found that the combined presence of cyclic loads and a corrosive environment was the cause of the accelerated fatigue of the fastening bolts.
The tests carried out indicate that the actual operating conditions were different than expected.
The corrosion contributed to the loosening of the bolts and initiation of fatigue cracks in the bolt threads.
Further damage of the galvanized bolts was caused by fatigue crack growth in their threaded part that propagated towards the centre of the material. Cracks in the zinc coating were transferred to the steel substrate.
The corrosion was favored by the oxygen concentration cell and numerous radial cracks appear in the zinc coating.
The vibrations accompanying the operation of the wind tower led to their further propagation and the formation of the fatigue fracture in one of the bolts.
Ti-22Nb-6Zr (at.%) alloy with different processing-induced microstructures (highly-dislocated partially recovered substructure, polygonized nanosubgrained (NSS) dislocation substructure, and recrystallized structure) was subjected to strain-controlled tension-tension fatigue testing in the 0.2...1.5% strain range (run-out at 10^6 cycles).
The NSS alloy obtained after cold-rolling with 0.3 true strain and post-deformation annealing at 600 °C showed the lowest Young's modulus and globally superior fatigue performance due to the involvement of reversible stress-induced martensitic transformation in the deformation process.
This NSS structure appears to be suitable for biomedical applications with an extended variation range of loading conditions (orthopedic implants).
The article presents the influence of structure formation on the properties of 321 metastable austenitic stainless steel in the process of cold radial forging (CRF).
The steel under study after austenitization was subjected to CRF at room temperature with degrees of true strain (e) 0.26, 0.56, 1.00, 1.71 and 2.14.
It has been shown that structure formation of the studied steel during CRF consists of three stages: formation of the lamellar structure of austenite, formation of the trapezoidal structure, and formation of the equiaxial grain structure.
The kinetics of the strain-induced α'-martensitic transformation is related to the stages of structure evolution.
Hardness, ultimate tensile strength and yield strength uniformly increase in all stages of structure formation with a significant decrease of elongation to fracture during the first stage of structure formation while the value of elongation to fracture remains constant in the subsequent stages of deformation.
Impact strength of fatigue cracked specimens (KCT) decreases sharply at the first stage of structure formation and smoothly increases at the second and third stages.
However, the impact strength of V-notch specimens (KCV) continuously decreases when deformation degree increases in the overall investigated deformation range.
Titanium alloys are widely used in biomedical applications.
However, cases of implant failure due to fatigue fracture and bacterial infection are common.
In addition, implants are susceptible to metal ions (Al, V) released by long-term exposure to human body fluids, which causes neuropathy, mental disorders, and other diseases.
Thus, development of novel materials to achieve long-term safety of implants is currently a research hotspot.
Recently, our research group has developed an ultrafine-grained Ti6Al4V-5Cu alloy with a unique "dual-phase honeycomb shell" (DPHS) structure, which possesses high fatigue strength and stability.
This study further affirmed its higher corrosion behavior, antibacterial properties, and cytocompatibility compared to the coarse-grained Ti6Al4V and Ti6Al4V-5Cu alloys.
The ultrafine-grained structure of Ti6Al4V-5Cu having DPHS increased the proportion of phases (Cu-rich phases, β-phase, and Ti
The evaluation of the stress concentration factor (SCF) at the notches of welds is of importance, especially for butt-welded joints that are widespread in the industry.
Some empirical formulae can be found in the literature to estimate the SCF at the weld toes of butt-welded joints, while few solutions are available for the distorted joints under tensile fatigue test conditions.
In the present study, the existing SCF formulae for butt-welded joints loaded in tension are examined and discussed.
The influence of the weld width on SCF, which is commonly ignored or misestimated by existing solutions, is investigated comprehensively based on a large set of two-dimensional (2D) finite element analyses.
Consequently, a new precise parametric formula for the elastic SCF at the weld toe of geometrically symmetric butt-welded joints under tension is proposed, together with a wide application range.
Moreover, the analysis is also extended to consider joints with angular distortion.
A two-step finite element analysis is employed to simulate the clamping and loading procedures in the fatigue test.
Similarly, the parametric formulae for the assessment of clamping-induced stress and SCF caused by angular distortion are carried out as well based on the results from finite element analyses.
The formulae proposed by this paper are finally tested and proved to be valid and precise.
A potential consequence of exposure to noise is a temporary reduction in auditory sensitivity known as temporary threshold shift (TTS), which mainly depends on the intensity and duration of exposure to the noise.
Recovery time is related to the amount of initial hearing loss, and the most recovery takes place during the first 15 min following exposure.
This study evaluated the efficacy in otoprotection against noise-induced hearing loss of an orally administrated food supplement containing coenzyme Q 10 -Ter.
This water-soluble formulation of coenzyme Q 10 shows better bioavailability than the native form and has been found to have a protective effect on outer hair cells after exposure to noise in animal models.
Thirty volunteers were enrolled, and the right ear of each subject was exposed to a narrow-band noise centered at 3 kHz for 10 min at the intensity of 90 dB HL.
In the 30 subjects enrolled, TTS was evaluated after 2, 15, and 30 min and the recovery time was recorded in each subject.
The longest recovery time was 45 min.
Among the 18 subjects who underwent a second test after treatment with Q-Ter, the mean recovery time was 31.43 min.
The results of the present study show that 30 days' treatment with Q-Ter can aid faster recovery after exposure to noise (P < 0.0001).
The reduction in the recovery time following treatment can be explained by Q-Ter-mediated improvement of the outer hair cells' response to oxidative stress.
Ceramic materials are potentially useful for dental applications because of their esthetic potential and biocompatibility.
However, evidence of contact fatigue damage in ceramics raises considerable concern regarding its effect on the survival probability predicted for dental prostheses.
To simulate intraoral conditions, Hertzian indentation loading with steel indenters was applied in this study to characterize the fatigue failure mechanisms of ceramic materials.
Baria silicate glasses and glass-ceramics with different aspect ratios of crystals were selected because the glass and crystal phases have similar density, elastic modulus, and thermal expansion coefficients.
Therefore, this system is a model ceramic for studying the effect of crystal geometry on contact cyclic fatigue failure.
The subsequent flexural strength results show that the failure of materials with a low fracture toughness such as baria-silicate glass (0.7 MPa m
Accurately predicting fatigue failure in CFRP laminates requires an understanding of the cyclic behavior of their resin matrix, which plays a crucial role in the materials' overall performance.
This study focuses on the temperature elevation during the cyclic loadings of the resin, driven by inelastic deformations that increase the dissipated energy.
At low loading frequencies, the dissipated energy is effectively released as heat, preventing significant temperature rise and maintaining a consistent, balanced thermal state.
However, at higher frequencies, the rate of energy dissipation exceeds the system's ability to release heat, causing temperature accumulation and accelerating damage progression.
To address this issue, the study incorporates non-recoverable strain into a fatigue simulation framework, enabling the accurate modeling of the temperature-dependent fatigue behavior.
At 0.1 Hz, damage accumulates rapidly due to significant inelastic deformation per cycle.
As the frequency increases to around 2 Hz, the number of cycles until failure rises, indicating reduced damage per cycle.
Beyond 2 Hz, higher frequencies result in accelerated temperature rises and damage progression.
These findings emphasize the strong link between the loading frequency, non-recoverable strain, and temperature elevation, providing a robust tool for analyzing resin behavior.
This approach represents an advancement in simulating the fatigue behavior of resin across a range of frequencies, offering insights for more reliable fatigue life predictions.
The effects of the γ″-Ni
The overview describes the synergy between biological sciences and cellular structures processed by additive manufacturing to elucidate the significance of cellular structured implants in eliminating stress shielding and in meeting the bio-mechanical property requirements of elastic modulus, impact resistance, and fatigue strength in conjunction with the biological functionality.
The convergence of additive manufacturing, computer-aided design, and structure-property relationships is envisaged to provide the solution to the current day challenges in the biomedical arena.
The traditional methods of fabrication of biomedical devices including casting and mechanical forming have limitations because of the mismatch in micro/microstructure, mechanical, and physical properties with the host site.
Additive manufacturing of cellular structured alloys
Repetitive stress injuries to the rotator cuff, and particularly the supraspinatus tendon (SST), are highly prevalent and debilitating.
These injuries typically occur through the application of cyclic load below the threshold necessary to cause acute tears, leading to accumulation of incremental damage that exceeds the body's ability to heal, resulting in decreased mechanical strength and increased risk of frank rupture at lower loads.
Consistent progression of fatigue damage across multiple model systems suggests a generalized tendon response to overuse.
This finding may allow for interventions before gross injury of the SST occurs.
Further research into the human SST response to fatigue loading is necessary to characterize the fatigue life of the tendon, which will help determine the frequency, duration, and magnitude of load spectra the SST may experience before injury.
Future studies may allow in vivo SST strain analysis during specific activities, generation of a human SST stress-cycle curve, and characterization of damage and repair related to repetitive tasks.
In this work, the effects of loading condition and corrosion solution on the corrosion fatigue behavior of smooth steel wire were discussed.
The results of polarization curves and weight loss curves showed that the corrosion of steel wire in acid solution was more severe than that in neutral and alkaline solutions.
With the extension of immersion time in acid solution, the cathodic reaction of steel wire gradually changed from the reduction of hydrogen ion to the reduction of oxygen, but was always the reduction of hydrogen ion in neutral and alkaline solutions.
The corrosion kinetic parameters and equivalent circuits of steel wires were also obtained by simulating the Nyquist diagrams.
In corrosion fatigue test, the effect of stress ratio and loading frequency on the crack initiation mechanism was emphasized.
The strong corrosivity of acid solution could accelerate the nucleation of crack tip.
The initiation mechanism of crack under different conditions was summarized according to the side and fracture surface morphologies.
For the crack initiation mechanism of anodic dissolution, the stronger the corrosivity of solution was, the more easily the fatigue crack source formed, while, for the crack initiation mechanism of deformation activation, the lower stress ratio and higher frequency would accelerate the generation of corrosion fatigue crack source.
Cracking of intramedullary nails, starting at the proximal end of the partial slot and propagating in a circumferential direction, has been observed.
These partial cracks are relatively frequent, although full failures are very rare and do not disturb fracture healing.
Coining is a cold-working process used to improve the endurance of structures with residual compressive stresses generated by plastic deformation.
The influence of coining was investigated to evaluate its practical value in controlling these fatigue cracks.
Bending and torsional tests were performed on high frequency machines.
Coined zones of different shapes and depths were examined, comparing the elapsed number of load cycles with crack initiation.
The results showed that the endurance of coined nails was improved by factors of approximately 10 and 5 in bending and torsion, respectively.
This increase in fatigue life corresponds to a more than 50% larger dynamic load after a million cycles.
Variations in coining shape and depth did not yield any significant differences.
To compare the effects of autoclave on surface microstructure and cyclic fatigue resistance of K3XF and K3.
Forty-eight size 25, 0.06 taper 25 mm-long K3XF or K3 were randomly divided into 4 groups (n=12).
The instruments from group 1 were not autoclaved, and the groups 2 to 4 underwent autoclave for 10 cycles, 20 cycles, and 30 cycles, respectively.
The surface microstructure of two instruments randomly selected from each group was observed using scanning electron microscope (SEM).
The remaining 10 instruments were submitted to the cyclic fatigue test by using a simulated metal root canal with curvature of 60° and radius 3.5 mm. The time till fracture was recorded, the number of cyclic fatigue (NCF) calculated, the fragment length evaluated, and the topographic features were analyzed using SEM.
The data were analyzed using the two-way ANOVA analysis by SAS 9.3 software at a significance level of P<0.05.
SEM observation identified rough features on the surface of K3XF with micropores existing evenly.
K3 was characterized by machining grooves, which located specifically in the flute, leaving a smooth cutting edge.
After autoclave, SEM observation indicated that the micropores in the surface of K3XF became larger and more, whereas the machining grooves in the surface of K3 were squeezed, out of shape and flaking.
As far as the NCF was concerned, new K3XF was 210±59, and no significant difference was found after 10, 20, and 30 cycles of autoclave for K3XF, values being 178±37, 208±48, and 227±43, respectively (P>0.05).
For K3, the new one was 145±38, and no significant difference in NCF was demonstrated after 10 and 20 cycles of autoclave, with the values of 128±43 and 124±46, respectively (P>0.05).
However, after 30 cycles of autoclave of K3, significant increase to 216±38 was identified (P<0.05).
Topographic features demonstrated typical cyclic fatigue for all the groups.
The surface roughness of K3XF was increased after autoclave, while the cyclic resistance remained stable after up to 30 cycles.
The risk of femoral stem fracture after total hip replacement is low and can often be associated with a specific implant system or other factors that may reduce the fatigue strength.
Additionally, damage to a metal component during revision surgery by an electrocautery device may further affect the fatigue behavior.
Two clinical cases of stem failure after revision of fractured ceramic components are presented; the retrieved components were analyzed for the cause of failure.
In vitro cyclic load-to-failure testing of titanium alloy femoral stems after electrocautery application at 2 different locations (at the base and about midway on the femoral neck) was performed using a stepwise increase in load until implant fracture occurred.
In addition, a detailed characterization of the local material structure around the electrocautery marks was performed.
Superficial discoloration and melting marks were found on the retrieved components, including at the location of crack initiation in the anterolateral region, which may have reduced the fatigue strength of the material. In addition, elemental analysis indicated material transfer from the electrocautery tip.
Damage to the surface by the electrocautery device significantly reduced the in vitro load to failure by up to 47% compared with that of undamaged femoral neck specimens.
Material analysis revealed a relevant modification in microstructure, with an extension of approximately 2.7 mm and a depth of 550 µm, which could be divided in 3 structural zones.
Intraoperative electrocautery device contact with the implant during surgical revision of a total hip replacement cannot always be avoided.
However, on the basis of our findings, the risk of implant failure is increased due to a change in microstructure and a potential reduction of the implant's fatigue strength.
Surgeons and manufacturers of electrocautery devices should be aware of this concern.
During revision surgery, contact between an electrocautery device and the femoral component should be avoided to reduce the chance of subsequent femoral neck fracture.
The developed microstructures and their deformation behavior were studied in a high-strength low-alloy steel subjected to tempforming, i.e., tempering followed by large-strain rolling at temperatures of 823 K or 923 K.
Tempforming has been recently proposed as an advanced treatment for low-alloy steels in order to substantially increase their impact toughness at low temperatures.
However, the mechanical properties, especially the fatigue behavior, of tempformed steels have not been studied in sufficient detail.
The present study, therefore, is focused on the strengthening mechanisms of the tempformed steel, placing particular emphasis on the low-cycle fatigue behavior.
Tempforming resulted in a lamellar-type microstructure with a high dislocation density and dispersed Cr
The unexpected failures of structural materials in very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) regime have been a critical issue in modern engineering design.
In this study, the VHCF property of a Cr-Ni-W gear steel was experimentally investigated under axial loading with the stress ratio of
In this paper, some recent piezoelectric wafer active sensors (PWAS) progress achieved in our laboratory for active materials and smart structures (LAMSS) at the University of South Carolina: http: //www.me.sc.edu/research/lamss/ group is presented.
First, the characterization of the PWAS materials shows that no significant change in the microstructure after exposure to high temperature and nuclear radiation, and the PWAS transducer can be used in harsh environments for structural health monitoring (SHM) applications.
Next, PWAS active sensing of various damage types in aluminum and composite structures are explored.
PWAS transducers can successfully detect the simulated crack and corrosion damage in aluminum plates through the wavefield analysis, and the simulated delamination damage in composite plates through the damage imaging method.
Finally, the novel use of PWAS transducers as acoustic emission (AE) sensors for in situ AE detection during fatigue crack growth is presented.
The time of arrival of AE signals at multiple PWAS transducers confirms that the AE signals are originating from the crack, and that the amplitude decay due to geometric spreading is observed.
In modern engineering application, enough high cycle bending fatigue strength is the necessary factor to provide the basic safety security for the application of the crankshaft in automobile engines (both diesel and gasoline types).
At present, this parameter is usually obtained through the standard bending fatigue experiment process, which is time consuming and expensive.
In this paper, a new accelerated crankshaft bending fatigue experiment was proposed step by step.
First the loading procedure was quickened through the prediction of the residual fatigue life based on the UKF (unscented Kalman filtering algorithm).
Then the accuracy of the predictions was improved based on the modified sampling range and the theory of fracture mechanics.
Finally the statistical analysis method of the fatigue limit load was performed based on the above predictions.
The main conclusion of this paper is that the proposed accelerated bending fatigue experiment can save more than 30% of the bending fatigue experiment period and provide nearly the same fatigue limit load analysis result.
In addition, compared with the particle filtering algorithm method, the modified UKF can provide much higher accuracy in predicting the residual bending fatigue life of the crankshaft, which makes this method more superior to be applied in actual engineering.
The fatigue behavior of a high-strength bearing steel tempered under three different temperatures was investigated with ultrasonic frequency and conventional frequency loading.
Three kinds of specimens with various yield strengths exhibited obvious higher fatigue strengths under ultrasonic frequency loading.
Then, a 2D crystal plasticity finite element method was adopted to simulate the local stress distribution under different applied loads and loading frequencies.
Simulations showed that the maximum residual local stress was much smaller under ultrasonic frequency loading in contrast to that under conventional frequency at the same applied load.
It was also revealed that the maximum local stress increases with the applied load under both loading frequencies.
The accumulated plastic strain was adopted as a fatigue indicator parameter to characterize the frequency effect, which was several orders smaller than that obtained under conventional loading frequencies when the applied load was fixed.
The increment of accumulated plastic strain and the load stress amplitude exhibited a linear relationship in the double logarithmic coordinate system, and an improved fatigue life prediction model was established.
We overview recent findings achieved in the field of model-driven development of additively manufactured porous materials for the development of a new generation of bioactive implants for orthopedic applications.
Porous structures produced from biocompatible titanium alloys using selective laser melting can present a promising material to design scaffolds with regulated mechanical properties and with the capacity to be loaded with pharmaceutical products.
Adjusting pore geometry, one could control elastic modulus and strength/fatigue properties of the engineered structures to be compatible with bone tissues, thus preventing the stress shield effect when replacing a diseased bone fragment.
Adsorption of medicals by internal spaces would make it possible to emit the antibiotic and anti-tumor agents into surrounding tissues.
The developed internal porosity and surface roughness can provide the desired vascularization and osteointegration.
We critically analyze the recent advances in the field featuring model design approaches, virtual testing of the designed structures, capabilities of additive printing of porous structures, biomedical issues of the engineered scaffolds, and so on.
Special attention is paid to highlighting the actual problems in the field and the ways of their solutions.
The effects of microstructure and axial tension on the fatigue behavior of TC4 titanium alloy in high cycle (HCF) and very high cycle (VHCF) regimes are discussed in this paper.
Ultrasonic three-point bending fatigue tests at 20 kHz were done on a fatigue life range among 10
Narrow-diameter implants have become popular, as bone augmentation procedures can frequently be avoided.
In order to provide implants with sufficient strength, a titanium-zirconium (Ti-Zr) alloy has recently been introduced purportedly showing improved mechanical properties as compared to commercially pure titanium (cpTi).
This paper reports on the clinical and fractographic aspects of a fractured Ti-Zr implant, generally considered a rare event.
A narrow-diameter Ti-Zr implant was placed in a patient aged 66 years in the area of the maxillary right canine and used to support a removable partial denture retained by cylindrical telescopic crowns placed on the implant and on the maxillary left canine.
Eleven months after successful osseointegration, the patient presented with a horizontally fractured implant.
The fractured part was retrieved for fractographic analysis.
The implant fractured just apical to the abutment screw, where the wall thickness of the implant is minimal. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis revealed the starting point of the fracture at the palatal aspect of the implant.
No fatigue striations could be observed, indicating a brittle fracture atypical for Ti-based alloys.
The fractographic observations correlate with the given loading situation, which is characterized by high levels of moment loading being imposed on the implant by a rigidly retained cantilever prosthesis.
Mechanical overload going beyond the approved indications for Roxolid implants (Straumann) has to be seen as primary cause for this fracture.
Cold metal transfer (CMT) fusion brazing technology was used to weld 6061 aluminum alloy and Q235 galvanized steel with ER4043 welding wire.
The microstructure, hardness, tensile performance, and fatigue performance of the welded joint were observed and analyzed.
The results show that the tensile strength of the welded joint is 110.83 MPa and the fatigue strength limit is 170 MPa. In the fatigue process, the coupon first undergoes cyclic hardening and then cyclic softening and a ratchet effect occurs.
The coupon was broken at the interface layer or weld zone where the fatigue strength limit is the lowest.
The fatigue crack initiation is mainly caused by: (1) inclusions and second-phase particles; and (2) porosity and incomplete fusion.
When cracks encounter holes during expansion, the expansion direction will change.
The fatigued coupon displays a toughness fracture in the instantaneous fracture zone.
Statistical fatigue life for body dental porcelains, cooled in a furnace and in air, was predicted from measurements of post-indentation slow growth of radial cracks in water and in air.
Cracks were induced in the surfaces of porcelain discs by a Vickers indenter at an applied load of 9.8 N.
Crack lengths were measured at various times over a period of 5 months to calculate the stress corrosion susceptibility coefficient, n.
Lifetime under service stress was estimated from the measured value of n.
The ratios of service stress to fracture strength were calculated as 0.47 and 0.69, respectively, for glassy and feldspathic porcelains which were cooled in a furnace and aged in water.
The corresponding ratios for tempered (cooled in air) specimens were 0.58 and 0.67, respectively.
These were estimated values when service life exceeds 10 years.
The results suggest that the air cooling process can effectively increase the service life of glassy porcelains, but, for feldspathic porcelain it is less effective.
The fatigue failure mechanism of bending fretting for cyclic softening material 6061-T6 aluminum alloy was researched by experiment and finite element method.
The influence of cyclic load on bending fretting fatigue was researched and the damage characteristics under different cycles was discussed experimentally though SEM images.
In the simulation, a normal load transformation method was employed to obtain a simplified two-dimensional model used for simulating the bending fretting fatigue from a three-dimensional model.
An advanced constitutive equation with the Abdel-Ohno rule and isotropic hardening evolution was transplanted into ABAQUS by UMAT subroutine to consider the ratchetting behavior and cyclic softening characteristics.
The peak stain distributions under various cyclic loads were discussed.
Additionally, the bending fretting fatigue lives and crack initiation locations referring to a critical volume method were estimated using the Smith-Watson-Topper critical plane approach and reasonable results were obtained.
In this investigation, the influence of section diameter on high cycle fatigue (HCF) behavior of additively manufactured 316 L stainless steel was characterized.
Three gauge-section diameters (5.0 mm, 2.5 mm, and 1.5 mm) were examined for their influence on the ultrasonic fatigue response of samples built via laser-powder bed fusion (L-PBF).
HCF was conducted under full reversed loading (R=-1) conditions.
A total of 130 specimens were characterized in the as-built state at maximum stresses ranging from 70 to 220 MPa. A Random Fatigue Limit (RFL) model using a Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) was used to quantify statistical variability and estimate an S-N curve fit.
The fatigue response shows that the largest gauge diameter (5.0 mm) resulted in the lowest fatigue strength at 89.5 ± 5.6 MPa, and the smallest diameter (1.5 mm) resulted in the highest fatigue strength at 122.0 ± 32.8 MPa. The 2.5 mm diameter specimens exhibited a fatigue strength of 98.7 ± 7.0 MPa. The primary failure mechanism in all as-built specimens was surface initiated cracking from crevices in the as-built surface finish.
Additional specimens with a nominal diameter of 5.0 mm were fatigue tested with the as-built surface removed via low stress surface grinding.
The fatigue strength of these samples increased to 170 MPa when 75 μm of the surface was removed and 179 MPa when the surface contour was entirely removed.
Residual stresses were characterized by x-ray diffraction (XRD) and show a reduced axial residual stress with reduction in gauge diameter.
Additional specimens were fatigue tested after undergoing a stress relief anneal, resulting in a 51% reduction in the residual stress and a 30% improvement in fatigue strength.
An in-depth analysis of the microstructure, surface roughness, defects, and fracture surface indicate that both the surface condition and residual stress are the primary factors influencing the observed diameter effects on HCF.
The laser-based powder bed fusion (LBPF) process or commonly known as selective laser melting (SLM) has made significant progress since its inception.
Initially, conventional materials like 316L, Ti6Al4V, and IN-718 were fabricated using the SLM process.
However, it was inevitable to explore the possible fabrication of the second most popular structural material after Fe-based alloys/steel, the Al-based alloys by SLM.
Al-based alloys exhibit some inherent difficulties due to the following factors: the presence of surface oxide layer, solidification cracking during melt cooling, high reflectivity from the surface, the high thermal conductivity of the metal, poor flowability of the powder, low melting temperature, etc.
Researchers have overcome these difficulties to successfully fabricate the different Al-based alloys by SLM.
However, there exists no review dealing with the fabrication of different Al-based alloys by SLM, their fabrication issues, microstructure, and their correlation with properties in detail.
Hence, the present review attempts to introduce the SLM process followed by a detailed discussion about the processing parameters that form the core of the alloy development process.
This is followed by the current research status on the processing of Al-based alloys and microstructure evaluation (including defects, internal stresses, etc.), which are dealt with on the basis of individual Al-based series.
The mechanical properties of these alloys are discussed in detail followed by the other important properties like tribological properties, fatigue properties, etc.
Lastly, an outlook is given at the end of this review.
A numerical simulation investigating the frequency dependence of fatigue damage progression in carbon fiber-reinforced plastics (CFRPs) is conducted in this study.
The initiation and propagation of transverse cracks under varying fatigue test frequencies are successfully simulated, consistent with experiments, using an enhanced degradable Hashin failure model that was originally developed by the authors in 2022.
The results obtained from the numerical simulation in the present study, which employs adjusted numerical values for the purpose of damage acceleration, indicate that the number of cycles required for the formation of three transverse cracks was 174 cycles at 0.1 Hz, 209 cycles at 1 Hz, and 165 cycles at 10 Hz.
Based on these results, it is demonstrated that under high-frequency cyclic loading, internal heat generation caused by dissipated energy from mechanical deformation, attributed to the viscoelastic and/or plastic behavior of the material, exceeds thermal dissipation to the environment, leading to an increase in specimen temperature.
Consequently, damage progression accelerates under high-frequency fatigue.
In contrast, under low-frequency fatigue, viscoelastic dissipation becomes more pronounced, reducing the number of cycles required to reach a similar damage state.
The rate of damage accumulation initially increases with test frequency but subsequently decreases.
This observation underscores the importance of incorporating these findings into discussions on the fatigue damage of real structural components.
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are fascinating interdisciplinary scientific domains where machines are provided with an approximation of human intelligence.
The conjecture is that machines are able to learn from existing examples, and employ this accumulated knowledge to fulfil challenging tasks such as regression analysis, pattern classification, and prediction.
The horse biomechanical models have been identified as an alternative tool to investigate the effects of mechanical loading and induced deformations on the tissues and structures in humans.
Many reported investigations into bone fatigue, subchondral bone damage in the joints of both humans and animals, and identification of vital parameters responsible for retaining integrity of anatomical regions during normal activities in all species are heavily reliant on equine biomechanical research.
Horse racing is a lucrative industry and injury prevention in expensive thoroughbreds has encouraged the implementation of various measurement techniques, which results in massive data generation.
ML substantially accelerates analysis and interpretation of data and provides considerable advantages over traditional statistical tools historically adopted in biomechanical research.
This paper provides the reader with: a brief introduction to AI, taxonomy and several types of ML algorithms, working principle of a feedforward artificial neural network (ANN), and, a detailed review of the applications of AI, ML, and ANN in equine biomechanical research (i.e. locomotory system function, gait analysis, joint and bone mechanics, and hoof function).
Reviewing literature on the use of these data-driven tools is essential since their wider application has the potential to: improve clinical assessments enabling real-time simulations, avoid and/or minimize injuries, and encourage early detection of such injuries in the first place.
By means of the ultrasonic surface impact (amplitude of 30 μm, strike number of 48,000 times/mm
Many breast cancer survivors continue to experience residual symptoms including anxiety, cognitive impairment, depression, fatigue, and pain.
In this study, the cost-effectiveness of a Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction intervention for breast cancer survivors was examined.
The cost of the program was assessed from the societal perspective, accounting for both direct medical and patient opportunity costs.
The cost per quality-adjusted life year was relatively low compared to the cost-utility findings of other published breast cancer interventions.
The program appears to provide for significantly improved health-related quality of life at a comparativelv low cost.
This paper reports the effect of as-deposited surface conditions on the fatigue strength of an additively manufactured titanium alloy, Ti-6Al-4V (WAAM Ti64).
First, the local stress concentration caused by the surface waviness was quantified using a metrology technique and computer modelling.
Fatigue tests were conducted under bending loads at a cyclic load ratio of 0.1.
The applicability of two predictive methods was the focus of this study.
The traditional notch stress method was unable to predict the correct S-N curve trend slope, which could be attributed to the early crack initiation from the troughs on the as-built surface, with crack propagation being the dominant failure mechanism.
By treating the troughs as small cracks, the fracture mechanics approach delivered good predictions at every applied stress level.
Surface machining and polishing may not always be practical or required; it depends on the applications and service load levels.
This research demonstrated that the fracture mechanics approach can be used for predicting the fatigue life of WAAM titanium alloys in as-built conditions and, hence, can be a tool for decision making on the level of surface machining.
Accumulation of microdamage during fatigue can lead to increased fracture susceptibility in bone.
Current techniques for imaging microdamage in bone are inherently destructive and two-dimensional. Therefore, the objective of this study was to image the accumulation of fatigue microdamage in cortical bone using micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) with a barium sulfate (BaSO(4)) contrast agent.
Two symmetric notches were machined on the tensile surface of bovine cortical bone beams in order to generate damage ahead of the stress concentrations during four-point bending fatigue.
Specimens were loaded to a specified number of cycles or until one notch fractured, such that the other notch exhibited the accumulation of microdamage prior to fracture.
Microdamage ahead of the notch was stained in vitro by precipitation of BaSO(4) and imaged using micro-CT.
Reconstructed images showed a distinct region of bright voxels around the notch tip or along propagating cracks due to the presence of BaSO(4), which was verified by backscattered electron imaging and energy dispersive spectroscopy.
The shape of the stained region ahead of the notch tip was consistent with principal strain contours calculated by finite element analysis.
The relative volume of the stained region was correlated with the number of loading cycles by non-linear regression using a power-law.
This study demonstrates new methods for the non-destructive and three-dimensional detection of fatigue microdamage accumulation in cortical bone in vitro, which may be useful to gain further understanding into the role of microdamage in bone fragility.
This article addresses the study of crack behavior elicited on axial fatigue in specimens joined by butt weld made of steel ASTM A36 by using fracture mechanics and simulation software of finite elements (Ansys APDL, Franc3D).
The computational model was initially to define the geometry model by using CAD software.
Specimens with Weld Reinforcement of 2 mm and 3mm were simulated.
Subsequently, the type of element for the mesh, the information inclusion concerning material mechanical properties and load conditions were selected.
By using Franc3D software, the crack propagation phenomenon is analyzed, and its growth parameters have been established.
In this way, it is possible to calculate the magnitude of stress intensity factor (SIF) along the crack front.
It is concluded that the stress located in the weld toe is maximized proportionately to the size of the weld reinforcement due to the concentration effect of geometric stress.
In addition, it is observed that the propagation rate obtained from Paris law has a similar behavior for the studied weld reinforcements; the latter as there were short cracks.
Five formulations of clinically relevant UHMWPE (conventional, moderately crosslinked annealed and remelted, and highly crosslinked annealed and remelted) were investigated in a physiologically relevant environment.
Their monotonic stress-strain behavior in the presence of notches of two different severities and at two different displacement rates was examined using a custom developed video based system.
It was found that both an elevation of yield stress and a truncation of orientation hardening took place under monotonic loading and that these changes were found to be material and elastic stress concentration factor dependent.
The fatigue behavior of these materials was examined using the same geometries via a stress-life approach with failure defined as fracture of the specimen in the 1000 to 100,000 cycle lifetime range.
The results were modeled using the Basquin relationship (σ=AN(b), where σ=stress and N=lifetime, and A and b are experimentally derived constants) via maximum likelihood estimation methods to account for specimen runout (no failure at 250,000cycles).
The conventional material was found to have a greater slope, b, and intercept, A, than the crosslinked materials as well as appearing to have less variance in its failure distributions.
The low cycle fatigue tests on the crack initiation and propagation of cast magnesium alloys with two small holes were carried out by using in-situ scanning electron microscope (SEM) observation technology.
The fatigue crack propagation behaviors and fatigue life, which are affected by two small artificial through holes, including the distances between two holes and their locations, were discussed in detail based on the experimental results and the finite element analysis (FEA).
The results indicated that the fatigue multi-cracks occurred chiefly at the edges of two holes and the main crack propagation was along the weak dendrite boundary with the plastic deformation vestiges on the surface of α-Mg phase of cast AM50 and AM60B alloys.
The fatigue cracking characteristics of cast AZ91 alloy depended mainly on the brittle properties of β-Mg
Noise induced hearing loss is associated with increased excitability in the central auditory system but the cellular correlates of such changes remain to be characterized.
Here we tested the hypothesis that noise-induced hearing loss causes deterioration of perineuronal nets (PNNs) in the auditory cortex of mice.
PNNs are specialized extracellular matrix components that commonly enwrap cortical parvalbumin (PV) containing GABAergic interneurons.
Compared to somatosensory and visual cortex, relatively less is known about PV/PNN expression patterns in the primary auditory cortex (A1).
Whether changes to cortical PNNs follow acoustic trauma remains unclear.
The first aim of this study was to characterize PV/PNN expression in A1 of adult mice.
PNNs increase excitability of PV+ inhibitory neurons and confer protection to these neurons against oxidative stress.
Decreased PV/PNN expression may therefore lead to a reduction in cortical inhibition.
The second aim of this study was to examine PV/PNN expression in superficial (I-IV) and deep cortical layers (V-VI) following noise trauma.
Exposing mice to loud noise caused an increase in hearing threshold that lasted at least 30 days.
PV and PNN expression in A1 was analyzed at 1, 10 and 30 days following the exposure.
No significant changes were observed in the density of PV+, PNN+, or PV/PNN co-localized cells following hearing loss.
However, a significant layer- and cell type-specific decrease in PNN intensity was seen following hearing loss.
Some changes were present even at 1 day following noise exposure.
Attenuation of PNN may contribute to changes in excitability in cortex following noise trauma.
The regulation of PNN may open up a temporal window for altered excitability in the adult brain that is then stabilized at a new and potentially pathological level such as in tinnitus.
Residual stresses affect the performance and reliability of most manufactured goods and are prevalent in casting, welding, and additive manufacturing (AM, 3D printing).
Residual stresses are associated with plastic strain gradients accrued due to transient thermal stress.
Complex thermal conditions in AM produce similarly complex residual stress patterns.
However, measuring real-time effects of processing on stress evolution is not possible with conventional techniques.
Here we use operando neutron diffraction to characterize transient phase transformations and lattice strain evolution during AM of a low-temperature transformation steel.
Combining diffraction, infrared and simulation data reveals that elastic and plastic strain distributions are controlled by motion of the face-centered cubic and body-centered cubic phase boundary.
Our results provide a new pathway to design residual stress states and property distributions within additively manufactured components.
These findings will enable control of residual stress distributions for advantages such as improved fatigue life or resistance to stress-corrosion cracking.
In this dataset, experimental results of high-cycle bending fatigue testing on crankshaft ductile cast irons were presented both in raw and analyzed data.
For this objective, EN-GJS-700-2 standard samples were cut and machined from the crankshaft of a gasoline engine.
Then, stress-controlled rotary fatigue experiments were done on cast iron specimens under cyclic four-point bending loads in a fully-reversed condition (zero mean stress).
These tests were considered under different cases of the loading rate and the applied stress, for both smooth and notched samples.
The loading frequency was set to 12.5, 33.3, 58.3, and 100.0 Hz.
The nominal stress was 226.6, 340.0, and 415.5 MPa in unnotched specimens.
These values became 310.9, 513.6, and 642.4 MPa, respectively, when a notch was made on the specimens.
After testing, field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) was utilized from the fracture surface of all samples to find the striation spacing and the crack length plus the fatigue lifetime.
Obtained results from the sensitivity analysis illustrated that striation spacing was significantly affected by all three inputs of the loading frequency, the maximum stress, and the stress intensity factor.
However, the loading frequency and the stress intensity factor had no effects on the fatigue lifetime and the crack length.
Since external coaptation is applied clinically to prevent plate failure during healing in canine pancarpal arthrodesis (PCA), we tested the hypothesis that external coaptation does not significantly reduce plate strain in an experimental ex vivo model of canine PCA.
Ten thoracic limbs from healthy Greyhounds euthanatized for reasons un- related to the study were harvested and the carpus was stabilised with a dorsally applied 2.7/3.5 mm hybrid PCA plate.
The strain in the plate adjacent to the most distal radial screw hole (R4) and the radial carpal bone (RCB) screw hole was measured as the limbs were loaded axially to a load that approximated that of controlled walking.
Each limb was tested with and without external coaptation in place.
Mean strain amplitude at the RCB was -177.2 με (± 20.78) without external coaptation.
Following cast application, strain reduced significantly to -34.7 με (± 9.84) (p <0.002).
Mean strain at R4 was -89.4 με (± 22.10) without external support and -66.9 με (± 10.74) following application of a cast.
This reduction in recorded strain was not statistically significant.
The application of a cast to the distal portion of the limb significantly reduced strain in the 2.7/3.5 mm hybrid PCA plate, but the magnitude of the measured strain was low, suggesting that fatigue damage is unlikely to accumulate as a result of this type of loading and that external coaptation may not be necessary to prevent fatigue failure of the plate.
Many painful and physically debilitating conditions involve sub-failure mechanical damage to seemingly intact connective tissues such as tendons and ligaments.
We found that the amount of denatured collagen in rat tail tendon (RTT) fascicles increased over experiments of cyclic loading to a constant load level (creep cyclic fatigue) with fluorescently tagged collagen hybridizing peptides (CHPs) that bind to denatured collagen.
To better understand tendon sub-failure damage progression, computational modeling of tendon materials via finite element analysis in FEBio has been conducted.
The objective of this project was to develop, implement, and test the ability of a new continuum damage mechanics (CDM) model in FEBio to represent the sub-failure damage behavior seen in our RTT fascicle creep cyclic fatigue experimental data.
There appeared to be two distinct mechanisms responsible for the creep cyclic fatigue softening behavior of RTT fascicles over the number of cycles to failure: the preconditioning effect and overall collagen damage.
In our finite element (FE) models, the RTT fascicle undamaged elastic constitutive material was composed of a matrix and fibers described by the Coupled Veronda-Westmann and exponential-linear materials.
This undamaged elastic material was convolved with a modified CDM model adapted from Balzani et al., in 2012.
The novelty of the Balzani damage model is the inclusion of two interrelated mechanisms described as continuous and discontinuous damage.
The continuous damage formulation calculates damage accumulation during the loading and reloading of each new cycle, while the discontinuous damage approach accumulates damage from the maximum strain over the loading history to the current time.
We modified the Balzani damage model formulations to represent exponential and sigmoidal increases in damage marked by the preconditioning effect and collagen damage in RTT fascicles as functions of continuous and discontinuous damage.
The original Balzani damage model was first verified, then the modified CDM model was implemented into FEBio and used to reproduce the sample specific experimental creep cyclic fatigue stress-strain data as well as predict incremental cyclic fatigue.
The resulting model will be useful for future experimental and computational studies of damage mechanics to understand tendon pathologies.
Gradient structure (GS) is commonly designed and processed in engineering materials to improve mechanical properties especially fatigue performance by taking advantage of the strengthened surface.
However, whether the very-high-cycle fatigue (VHCF) property can be improved by GS is questioning due to the different crack initiation mechanisms between low-, high-cycle and VHCF.
In this paper, GS of a Ti-6Al-4V alloy is generated by pre-torsion and characterized by electron backscatter diffraction.
Then the VHCF behavior of the GS specimen is studied.
The fractography and synchrotron radiation X-ray microtomography presented detailed characteristics of the internal crack initiation region in VHCF of the titanium alloy with GS.
The results indicated that, in contrast to the low- and high-cycle regimes, the VHCF strength is reduced for the specimens with GS.
Thus, the GS induced by pre-torsion cannot enhance the VHCF strength of the titanium alloy.
This implies that VHCF test (property) is an important consideration for the microstructural designed materials.
The graphical abstract is available in Supplementary information.
Composite structures during an operation are subjected to various types of external loading (impact, vibration, cyclic, etc.), which may lead to a decrease in mechanical properties.
Previously, many experimental investigations of the mechanical behavior of composites under uniaxial cyclic loading were carried out.
Acquisition of new data on the reduction of composite materials' mechanical characteristics under conditions of multiaxial cyclic loading, as well as verification of existing models for calculation of the residual properties, are relevant.
Therefore, this work is devoted to the experimental investigation of the mechanical behavior of fiberglass tubes under proportional cyclic loading.
Static and fatigue tests were carried out under tension with torsion conditions.
Inhomogeneous strain fields were obtained using a non-contact optical video system VIC-3D.
The structural damage accumulation processes were analyzed by an AMSY-6 acoustic emission signals recording system.
Surface defects were determined using a DinoLite microscope.
Residual dynamic elastic modules were calculated during fatigue tests, and fatigue sensitivity curves were built.
Data was approximated using various models, and their high descriptive capability was revealed.
Damage accumulation stages were determined.
The dependence of the models' parameters on a stress state were observed.
It was concluded that multiaxial cyclic loading leads to a significant decrease in mechanical properties, which should be taken into account in composite structure design.
Intense thermo-mechanical coupling effects during cutting generate residual stress within the surface layer of a workpiece.
This residual stress is a critical factor influencing the fatigue life, corrosion resistance, and dimensional stability of mechanical components, making its accurate prediction and control essential for improving product performance.
To address the often generalized treatment of residual stress prediction modeling in existing literature, this paper presents a systematic review of recent advances in surface residual stress prediction for cutting operations.
It details the formation mechanisms and significance of residual stress, focusing on four primary modeling approaches: empirical models based on experimental data, analytical models founded on metal cutting and elastoplastic theory, finite element models that simulate actual machining conditions, and hybrid models.
A comprehensive analysis and comparison of these four model types is provided, summarizing their respective advantages and limitations.
Furthermore, this paper identifies potential future research directions and development trends in residual stress prediction modeling, serving as a valuable reference for work in this field.
Requirements and strict regulations for high-performance racing applications involve the use of new and innovative lightweight structural materials.
Therefore, intermetallic γ-TiAl-based alloys enable new opportunities in the field due to their lower density compared to commonly used Ni-base superalloys.
In this study, a β-solidifying TiAl alloy was examined toward its use as structural material for inlet and outlet valves.
The nominal composition of the investigated TNM alloy is Ti-43.5Al-4Nb-1Mo-0.1B (in at%), which enables an excellent formability at elevated temperatures due to the presence of bcc β-phase.
Different hot-extrusion tests on an industrial scale were conducted on the cast and hot isostatic pressed material to determine the ideal microstructure for the respective racing application.
To simulate these operation conditions, hot tensile tests, as well as rotational bending tests, at room temperature were conducted.
With a higher degree of deformation, an increasing strength and fatigue limit was obtained, as well as a significant increment of ductility.
The fracture surfaces of the rotational bending test specimens were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy, revealing the relationship between crack initiation and microstructural constituents.
The results of this study show that the mechanical performance of extruded TiAl material can be tailored via optimizing the degree of hot-extrusion.
Stress fractures of the metatarsals are common overuse injuries in athletes and military cadets, yet their etiology remains unclear.
In vitro, high bone strains have been associated with the accumulation of microdamage and shortened fatigue life.
It is therefore postulated that stress fractures in vivo are caused by elevated strains, which lead to the accumulation of excessive damage.
We used a cadaver model to test the hypothesis that strains in the metatarsals increase with simulated muscle fatigue and plantar fasciotomy.
A dynamic gait simulator was used to load fifteen cadaveric feet during the entire stance phase of gait under conditions simulating normal walking, walking with fatigue of the auxiliary plantar flexors, and walking after a plantar fasciotomy.
Strains were measured, with use of axial strain-gauges, in the dorsal, medial, and lateral aspects of the diaphysis of the second and fifth metatarsals as well as in the proximal metaphysis of the fifth metatarsal. When the feet were loaded under normal walking conditions, the mean peak strain in the dorsal aspect of the second metatarsal (-1897 microstrain) was more than twice that in the medial aspect of the fifth metatarsal (-908 microstrain).
Simulated muscle fatigue significantly increased peak strain in the second metatarsal and decreased peak strain in the fifth metatarsal. Release of the plantar fascia caused significant alterations in strain in both metatarsal bones; these alterations were greater than those caused by muscle fatigue.
After the plantar fasciotomy, the mean peak strain in the dorsal aspect of the second metatarsal (-3797 microstrain) was twice that under normal walking conditions.
The peak axial strain in the diaphysis of the second metatarsal is significantly (p < 0.0001) higher than that in the diaphysis of the fifth metatarsal during normal gait.
The plantar fascia and the auxiliary plantar flexors are important for maintaining normal strains in the metatarsals during gait.
Based on the twin bridge shear specimen, the cyclic shear experiments were performed on 1.2 mm thin plates of 316L metastable austenitic stainless steel with different strain amplitudes from 1 to 5% at ambient temperature.
The fatigue behavior of 316L stainless steel under the cyclic shear path was studied, and the microscopic evolution of the material was analyzed.
The results show that the cyclic stress response of 316L stainless steel exhibited cyclic hardening, saturation and cyclic softening, and the fatigue life is negatively correlated with the strain amplitude.
The microstructure was analyzed by using electron back-scattered diffraction (EBSD).
It was found that grain refinement and martensitic transformation during the deformation process led to rapid crack expansion and reduced the fatigue life of 316L.
MTS-810 material testing machine and acoustic emission signal analyzer were adopted to explore the mechanical behavior of concrete beams broken by the static load and the nonlinear cumulative damage law of concrete beams broken by fatigue bending from single-stage loading.
Then, by introducing the Ramesh Talreja's Damage Criterion, the damage rule of single-stage loading was extended to the damage accumulation rule under multi-stage loading, and the results were verified by the results of two-stage and three-stage fatigue loading tests.
Two main conclusions are achieved: first, affected by four-point bending load, the fatigue life of the concrete specimen is in line with the law of the two-parameter Weibull distribution, namely the higher the stress level is, the shorter the fatigue life is.
Second, an obvious nonlinear relationship was discovered in the damage of concrete.
The model deduced in this paper and the Palmgren-Miner linear damage accumulation model were adopted to compare the test results of flexural fatigue under single, two and three stage loads.
The calculation results of this model were more reliable.
The energy evolution, fatigue life and failure behaviour of dissimilar Al/steel keyhole-free Friction stir spot welding (FSSW) joints were studied under different fatigue loads.
The absorption energy of fatigue fracture, the fracture mechanism and the sensitivity of the fatigue limits to the fatigue load parameters were analysed.
It was found that the stress ratio R determines the fatigue limit Ff, while the fatigue limit F
Yoga practices have shown benefits in people with multiple sclerosis, improving their memory, fatigue, bladder symptoms, perception, stress, mood, and quality of life.
This study investigates the effects of add-on yoga in people with recurrent remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).
This is a single group, pre-post retrospective study, involving 92 participants with RRMS in remission and residual symptoms, undergoing neurorehabilitation at Kuratorium Wohnen Alter (KWA) in Germany (n = 32) and SVYASA University in India (n = 60).
All participants received a two-week integrated yoga module, without changes to medications.
Clinical assessments were performed using a symptom checklist for Indian and the Barthel index for German participants, before and after the intervention.
Both groups showed significant improvements (P < .05) in their symptoms and vital parameters.
The Barthel index improved by 21%, and the symptom scale by 53%.
Vital parameters revealed a 5.6% and 3.3% reduction in systolic blood pressure in the German and Indian cohorts, respectively, and a 2.3% and 4.0% reduction in diastolic blood pressure in the two respective cohorts.
Resting respiratory rate decreased by 13.34%, with an increase in exhalation time (humming Bhramari) by 49%, indicating reduced autonomic arousal. 26 and 50 participants in the German and Indian cohorts, respectively, were on disease-modifying agents (standard medication).
Symptom analysis showed significant reductions (P < .05) in fatigue, pain, imbalance, stiffness, numbness, and impaired mobility, with gait improvement.
After 7 years, the Indian cohort showed a 53% reduction in their symptom score.
Add-on integrated yoga therapy improved symptoms and vital parameters for both Caucasian and Indian people with MS.
No relapses were observed over 7 years in regular Indian yoga practitioners using disease-modifying agents.
In the present work, the influence of the trunnion surface topography and the near-surface residual stresses on the joining process of a taper connection is examined using a replicate of the realistic taper connection as it occurs in conventional hip joint implants.
The focus of the work is on the surface of the taper trunnion made of Ti6Al4V ELI and its effect on the connection stability with a CoCrMo counterpart.
In this regard, the interrelation between surface topography, residual stresses, the joining behavior and the corrosion behavior under dynamic loading have been systematically investigated.
For this purpose, taper trunnions produced by means of three different machining processes were considered, i.e. fine machining, rough machining and a novel furrowing process.
These mechanical surface treatments result in different surface topographies and near-surface work hardening and residual stress states.
The results show that the primary taper stability is hardly altered by the different types of trunnion surfaces.
For all three surface states, the joining/dismantling procedure did not change the residual stress state at the surface.
After corrosion testing under dynamic loading, the fine machined taper surface exhibits the highest stability.
Moreover, fine machined tapers consolidated during the dynamic corrosion experiment as the ratio between joining and dismantling force increased from 0.49 ± 0.04 to 0.83 ± 0.08.
For the furrowed and rough machined taper surfaces, the connection stability showed a tendency towards increase and decrease, respectively, in the course of dynamic corrosion testing.
The results indicate that for choosing an optimal taper trunnion surface, the effects of corrosion must be taken into account.
With the development of new energy vehicles, the joining of lightweight alloys has received more attention.
Self-piercing riveting experiments of aluminum alloy and high-strength steel sheets were performed to analyze the effects of rivet height and laying order of metal sheets on the joining quality in the work.
The forming surface, cross-sectional morphology, static tensile property, fatigue property, failure mode, and mechanism were analyzed.
The results show that AA5052 alloy and SPFC440 steel can be joined effectively by self-piercing riveting, and there is good contact between rivet head and sheet surfaces.
When the rivet is 2.5-3.5 mm higher than the total thickness of two layers sheets, the rivet leg flares symmetrically without cracks or buckling, and the lower sheet completely encapsulates the joint button.
The joints have better static tensile properties when the rivet is about 3 mm higher than the thickness of two sheets.
The higher static strength is obtained when the aluminum alloy is placed at the lower position.
The rivet legs fall off from the lower sheets for all the samples in the tensile tests, which is independent of the rivet height and laying order of metal sheets.
The fatigue strength of the sample with the rivet height of 7 mm is the greatest, and the fatigue cracks always occur on the aluminum sheet under all experimental conditions.
The findings in this work can help the practical application of self-piercing riveting for aluminum/steel sheets.
Despite being designed considering infinite fatigue-life, failures of motor crankshafts forged from DIN 34CrNiMo6 steels have been reported in Brazilian power plants.
As such, the present work aims to discuss the failure of a crankshaft within this context, with the purpose of verifying whether the stresses developed in critical locations of the component were in accordance with the steel's fatigue limits, as well as if the material exhibits an adequate resistance to crack propagation.
Taking into consideration a set of critical-plane stress-based multiaxial fatigue criteria, namely Findley, Matake, McDiarmid and Susmel and Lazzarin, the fatigue behaviour of the material is analysed and discussed.
Furthermore, da/dN versus ΔK experiments were carried out with the purpose of determining the DIN 34CrNiMo6 steel's crack growth threshold ΔKth and comparing it to the ΔKth of three other commercially available steels (DIN 42CrMo4, SAE 4140 and SAE 4340).
The selected multiaxial fatigue criteria indicated that the stresses developed throughout the component were not sufficient to drive the crankshaft to failure, thus indicating safety.
On the other hand, the DIN 34CrNiMo6 steel presented the lowest ΔKth (6.6 MPa m1/2) among all the considered steels (10.86, 12.38 and 7.22 MPa m1/2 for the DIN 42CrMo4, SAE 4140 and SAE 4340, respectively), therefore being susceptible to shorter fatigue lives in comparison to the other materials.
Stress fractures are very frequent injuries which account for 10% of all consultations in sports medicine, in a majority of cases affecting the lower limbs in young adults.
They can be defined as a modification of the bone structure not necessarily associated with cortical infraction which occurs in the absence of injury.
They happen as a result of an imbalance between the bone's capacity for adaptation and the overloading of mechanical constraints applied.
This imbalance is adjusted by different favourable factors thus explaining the individual threshold to external demands.
In theory, any bone might be damaged although more frequently they are to be found at the level of the tibia or the second and third metatarsals.
The clinical picture is dominated by a symptomatology of pain which appears progressively strictly mechanical at the development stage.
Further medical examination will include an x-ray (late diagnosis which often gives false-negative results) but, more importantly, a scintigraphy (which is very sensitive at an early stage but which is not specific enough).
More recently, MRI has been a preferred means of detection.
The treatment consists of obligatory segmented rest for a period of between two and six weeks.
The intensity and length of treatment vary in function of the location of the injury and the reoccurrence of pain when the offending activity is restarted again.
Rest is of utmost importance in order to avoid an evolution towards a true fracture which would result in long-term isolation from sport and social activities.
Forming processes influence the mechanical properties of manufactured workpieces in general and by means of forming-induced initial damage in particular.
The effect of the latter on performance capability is the underlying research aspect for the investigations conducted.
In order to address this aspect, fatigue tests under compressive, tensile and compressive-tensile loads were set-up with discrete block-by-block increased amplitudes and constant amplitudes, and performed up to fracture or distinct lifetimes.
Aiming at the correlation of the macroscale mechanical testing results at the mesoscale, intensive metallographic investigations of cross-sections using the microscopical methods of secondary electron analysis, energy dispersive spectroscopy and electron backscatter diffraction were performed.
Thereby, the correlation of forming-induced initial damage and fatigue performance was determined, the relevance of compressive loads for the cyclic damage evolution was shown, and material anisotropy under compressive loads was indicated.
Finally, the need was addressed to perform further investigations regarding crack propagations and crack arrest investigations in order to clarify the mechanism by which initial damage affects cyclic damage evolution.
The relevance of the principal stress axis relative to the extrusion direction was emphasized and used as the basis of an argument for investigations under load paths with different stress directions.
We investigated the microstructures, tensile properties, fatigue strengths, and durability limits of hot-forged Ti-15Zr-4Nb (Ti-15-4) alloy artificial hip stems.
These properties were compared with those of Ti-15Zr-4Nb-4Ta (Ti-15-4-4) and Ti-6Al-4V (Ti-6-4) alloy stems annealed after selective laser melting.
The tensile and fatigue properties of test specimens cut from Ti-15-4 stems annealed after hot forging were excellent compared with those of the Alloclassic Zweymüller Stepless (SL) stem, which is used globally.
The 0.2% proof stress (σ
Preliminary studies on implant fatigue testing suggested that fractures were more likely to occur at 2 Hz than at 30 Hz (chi(2), p<0.05).
This investigation explores frequency and base elastic modulus effects on strain, strain rate and failure.
A total of 66 implants were mounted in different base materials (acrylic, glass-filled epoxy, aluminum) and loaded up to 10(6) cycles per ISO 14801 (20 N to 420-500 N) at frequencies of 2 Hz and 30 Hz (chosen to accelerate frequency as the stressor).
Absolute strain magnitudes and strain rates under varying loading conditions and with different base materials were measured using one strain-gauged implant.
Failure probability distributions were analyzed by both Weibull and life data analysis.
Measured strain was used to validate an FEA model.
Fracture surfaces were examined by SEM.
Number of failures and failure-rates-per-cycle differed significantly between implants tested at 2 Hz versus 30 Hz (p<0.05).
Strain magnitude was independent of frequency.
Strain rates were highly correlated with frequency (linear r(2)>0.99) and differed significantly under failure conditions (420 N): 2 Hz=8292 microstrain/s; (500 N): 30 Hz=80,840 microstrain/s.
Measured and FEA-calculated strains were similar.
Fracture surfaces were indistinguishable (2 Hz versus 30 Hz).
Fatigue failure was significantly more likely at 2 Hz than 30 Hz whereas base material and loading magnitude seemed to have only minor influence.
Absolute strain was identical at these frequencies suggesting strain rate sensitivity for this commercially pure titanium implant.
Both the Weibull and SEM analyses support an identical failure mechanism with damage accumulation more severe at lower frequencies, an interpretation consistent with strain rate sensitivity.
Welding defects are common during the production of large welded structures.
However, few studies have explored methods of compensating for clear welding defects without resorting to re-welding.
Here, an ultrasonic peening method to compensate for the deteriorated mechanical properties of overlap weld defects without repair welding was studied.
We experimentally investigated changes in the mechanical properties of defective welds before and after ultrasonic peening.
The weld specimen with an overlap defect contained a large cavity-type defect inside the weld bead, which significantly reduced the fatigue life.
When the surface of the defective test piece was peened, the fatigue life of the weld plate was restored, resulting in an equivalent or higher number of cycles to failure, compared to a specimen with a normal weld.
The recovery of mechanical properties was attributed to the effect of surface work hardening by ultrasonic peening and the change in stress distribution.
Thus, ultrasonic peening could compensate for the deterioration of mechanical properties such as tensile strength, fatigue life, and elongation due to overlap defects, without resorting to repair welding.
The aim of this work was to determine the influence of laser surface modification treatments on mechanical and electrochemical behavior in Ti and Ti-6Al-4V implants.
For each metal, different samples were laser modified simulating the markings according to the international requirements.
(It is necessary in each metallic biomaterial to mark the serial, batch and company numbers.) Microstructural changes produced by this treatment were observed: (a) the melting zone with small grain sizes and martensitic structures in above-mentioned metals and (b) the heat-affected zone (HAZ) with alpha phase in cp-Titanium with bigger grain sizes and Widmanstatten structure in Ti-6Al-4V.
Positive tensile residual stress was determined by means X-ray analysis in the zones marked by laser.
Furthermore, corrosion behavior was studied in a simulated body fluid at 37°C.
Pitting was observed in different zones near the HAZ and the results showed a decrease of the corrosion resistance in the laser treated samples.
Residual stresses and the martensitic microstructures favoured the decrease of the corrosion-fatigue life around 20% of both metals under physiological conditions.
When excised tendons are subjected to a prolonged load, whether constant or oscillatory, fatigue damage accumulates, leading eventually to rupture. 'Fatigue quality', assessed by the time-to-rupture under a given stress, was found to vary hugely among the tendons of a wallaby hind limb.
This material property correlates with the varied stresses to which tendons from different anatomical sites are exposed in life.
The correlation was demonstrated by subjecting each excised tendon to a load equal to the maximum isometric force that its muscle could have developed.
The time-to-rupture was then approximately the same for each tendon, on average 4.2 h.
A model is introduced in which damage is proposed as the trigger for adaptation of fatigue quality.
The model aims, in particular, to explain why low-stressed tendons are not made of a 'better' material, although this clearly exists since it is used in high-stressed tendons.
The principle of design to a minimum quality is viable in biology because of the availability of self-repair to balance routine damage.
Clinical symptoms, to be included under the general heading of 'overuse injuries', will only arise when this balance fails.
Atrophied skeletal muscle is a common clinical manifestation of bed rest that occurs primarily because of a lack of weight-bearing activity on the muscle.
Findings from several studies using an animal model to simulate the effects of bed rest on muscles indicate that when atrophied muscle is used again for weight-bearing activity, it undergoes a series of physiological changes, such as muscle fiber (myofiber) damage, death, and regeneration.
Also, in the recovering muscle, the inflammatory white blood cells, called macrophages, accumulate and shift in type in relation to the ongoing myofiber changes.
Similar processes may occur in the muscles of a patient resuming normal physical activity following bed rest.
The authors briefly describe the physiological changes related to atrophied muscle recovery and the implications for nursing care.
Nursing measures for the recovery period may include (a) assessing for symptoms associated with muscle injury, decreased strength, and fatigue; (b) encouraging sufficient protein intake and maintaining normal metabolic demands to ensure muscle repair; and (c) temporarily avoiding the use of immunosuppressive therapy, if possible, to ensure adequate macrophage function.
Mechanical properties determined by fatigue strength, ductility, and toughness are important measures for osteosynthesis plates in order to tolerate some load-bearing situations caused by muscle contractions and weight-bearing effects.
Previous study indicated that Indonesian-made plates showed lower mechanical strength compared to the European AO standard plate.
High stress under load-bearing situations often starts from surface of the plate; we therefore refined the grain size of the surface by using shot peening and surface mechanical attrition treatment (SMAT).
Single cycle bending tests showed that shot-peened and SMAT-treated plates had significantly higher load limit and bending stress compared to the original plates (p<0.05).
Weibull analysis confirmed the improvement of proportional load limit of SMAT-treated plates.
Fatigue limit also increased upon shot-peening and SMAT treatment (improvement ratio 18% and 27%, respectively).
Significant improvement ratio of fatigue tests can be observed in SMAT-treated plates compared to the untreated and shot-peened plates.
Fatigue performance demonstrated equivalent results between SMAT-treated and standard plate.
These designated that mechanical properties of Indonesian-made plates can be improved upon SMAT treatment leading to significant enhancement of mechanical strength thus is comparable to the standard plate.
Our findings highlight the benefits of SMAT treatment to improve mechanical strength of Indonesian-made osteosynthesis plates.
The effect of the grain refinement and texture on tensile and fatigue properties in commercially pure titanium (grade 2) processed by rotary swaging (RS) and an annealing treatment is investigated.
The as-processed sample consists of band-like grains on the longitudinal section and equiaxed grains on the transversal section and revealed an obvious <10-10> fiber texture with respect to the rod axis.
Through this technique, a sample with a high tensile strength of 870 MPa, a high uniform elongation of 8.5%, and a high fatigue limit of 490 MPa can be achieved, and the tensile and fatigue properties are almost the same as those of a conventional Ti-6Al-4V alloy.
The enhanced mechanical properties and plastic deformation mechanism are discussed in terms of the observed ultrafine-grained microstructure and strong fiber texture.
The fracture of restored teeth is a significant obstacle to lifelong oral health.
Recent studies suggest that fatigue cracks originate at flaws introduced during cavity preparation and that fatigue crack growth is a principle cause of restored tooth fractures.
In this study, the rate of fatigue crack growth in bovine dentin was estimated under mode I cyclic loading.
Double cantilever beam (DCB) specimens were obtained from bovine molars and subjected to high cycle fatigue loading (10(5) < N < 10(6)).
The fatigue crack growth rates were measured and used to estimate the crack growth exponent and coefficient according to the Paris Law.
The average fatigue crack growth exponent was 4.7 +/- 0.6 for crack growth parallel to the dentin tubules, which was significantly larger than 4.3 +/- 0.5 for crack growth perpendicular to the tubules (t-test, CI > 80%).
Although the crack growth rates varied considerably, there was no significant dependence on tubule orientation or tubule density.
However, specific features of the fracture surfaces and tendencies for crack curving away from the tubules suggested preferential fatigue crack growth perpendicular to the dentin tubules.
Results from this study are being used to guide an experimental investigation of fatigue crack growth in human dentin.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the acute effects of progressive fatigue on the parameters of running mechanics previously associated with tibial stress fracture risk.
Twenty-one trained male distance runners performed three sets (Pre, Mid, and Post) of six overground running trials at 4.5 m.s(-1) (± 5%).
Kinematic and kinetic data were collected during each trial using a 12-camera motion capture system, force platform, and head and leg accelerometers.
Between tests, each runner ran on a treadmill for 20 min at their corresponding lactate threshold (LT) speed.
Perceived exertion levels (RPE) were recorded at the third and last minute of each treadmill run.
RPE scores increased from 11.8 ± 1.3 to 14.4 ± 1.5 at the end of the first LT run and then further to 17.4 ± 1.6 by the end of the second LT run.
Peak rearfoot eversion, peak axial head acceleration, peak free moment and vertical force loading rates were shown to increase (P < 0.05) with moderate-large effect sizes during the progression from Pre to Post tests, although vertical impact peak and peak axial tibial acceleration were not significantly affected by the high-intensity running bouts.
Previously identified risk factors for impact-related injuries (such as tibial stress fracture) are modified with fatigue.
Because fatigue is associated with a reduced tolerance for impact, these findings lend support to the importance of those measures to identify individuals at risk of injury from lower limb impact loading during running.
The continuous drive towards higher specific power and lower displacement engines in recent years place increasingly higher loads on the internal combustion engine materials.
This necessitates a more robust collection of reliable material data for computational fatigue life prediction to develop reliable engines and reduce developmental costs.
Monotonic tensile testing and cyclic stress and strain-controlled testing of A356-T7 + 0.5 wt.% Cu cast aluminium alloys have been performed.
The uniaxial tests were performed on polished test bars extracted from highly loaded areas of cast cylinder heads.
The monotonic deformation tests indicate that the material has an elastic-plastic monotonic response with plastic hardening.
The strain controlled uniaxial low cycle fatigue tests were run at multiple load levels to capture the cyclic deformation behaviour and the corresponding fatigue lives.
The equivalent stress-controlled fatigue tests were performed to study the influence of the loading mode on the cyclic deformation and fatigue lives.
The two types of tests exhibit similar fatigue lives and stress-strain responses indicating minimal influence of the mode of loading in fatigue testing of A356 + T7 alloys.
The material exhibits a non-linear deformation behaviour with a mixed isotropic and kinematic hardening behaviour that saturates after the initial few cycles.
There exists significant scatter in the tested replicas for both monotonic and cyclic loading.
In this paper, hip implants made of Ti-6Al-4V titanium alloy are analyzed numerically using Extended Finite Element Method XFEM.
The combined effect of corrosion and fatigue was considered here since this is a common cause of failure of hip implants.
Experimental testing of Ti-6Al-4V alloy was performed to determine its mechanical properties under different working environments, including normal, salty, and humid conditions.
The integrity and life of the hip implant were assessed using the Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics (LEFM) approach.
For this purpose, the conditional fracture toughness Kq using CT specimens from all three groups (normal, humid, salty conditions) were determined.
This provided insight into how different aggressive environments affect the behavior of Ti-6Al-4V alloy; i.e., how much its resistance to crack growth would degrade depending on conditions corresponding to the real exploitation of hip implants.
Next, analytical and XFEM analyses of fatigue behavior in terms of the number of cycles were performed for all three groups, and the obtained results showed good agreement, confirming the validity of the integrity assessment approach shown in this work, which also represented a novel approach since fatigue and corrosion effects were investigated simultaneously.
The present work describes an experimental investigation of the fatigue durability of AISI 304 and AISI 316L austenitic stainless steels, which have regular reliefs (RR) of the IV-th type, formed by ball burnishing (BB) on flat surfaces, using a computer numerical control (CNC) milling center.
The methodology and the equipment used for obtaining regular reliefs, along with a vibration-induced fatigue test setup, are presented and described.
The results from the BB process and the fatigue life experiments of the tested austenitic stainless steels are gathered, using the approach of factorial design experiments.
It was found that the presence of RR of the IV-th type do not worsen the fatigue strength of the studied steels.
In this paper, a neural network model is developed to simulate the accumulation of apparent fatigue damage of 3D trabecular bone architecture at a given bone site during cyclic loading.
The method is based on five steps: (i) performing suitable numerical experiments to simulate fatigue accumulation of a 3D micro-CT trabecular bone samples taken from proximal femur for different combinations of loading conditions; (ii) averaging the sample outputs in terms of apparent damage at whole specimen level based on local tissue damage; (iii) preparation of a proper set of corresponding input-output data to train the network to identify apparent damage evolution; (iv) training the neural network based on the results of step (iii); (v) application of the neural network as a tool to estimate rapidly the apparent damage evolution at a given bone site.
The proposed NN model can be incorporated into finite element codes to perform fatigue damage simulation at continuum level including some morphological factors and some bone material properties.
The proposed neural network based multiscale approach is the first model, to the author's knowledge, that incorporates both finite element analysis and neural network computation to rapidly simulate multilevel fatigue of bone.
This is beneficial to develop enhanced finite element models to investigate the role of damage accumulation on bone damage repair during remodelling.
Microdamage accumulation in bone is now considered a contributing cause for bone fragility in older women.
However, there is still no method to detect and quantify microdamage in vivo.
We have found that positron emission tomography (PET) may be useful to detect and quantify bone microdamage in vivo using a high-resolution PET scanner with [18F]NaF as the tracer.
We have done several experiments using the rat ulnar loading model that demonstrate that (1) high-resolution [18F]NaF PET can detect newly created microdamage in vivo; (2) the microdamage detected in this way is co-localized with damage detected by histological and autoradiographic procedures; and (3) high-resolution [18F]NaF PET can distinguish between the effects of mechanical loading that does not produce damage and fatigue loading that creates microdamage.
The high-resolution [18F]NaF PET shows promise as a non-invasive means to image bone microdamage.
There are limited experimental data on VHCF for structural steels for >107 cycles.
Unalloyed low-carbon steel S275JR+AR is a common structural material for the heavy machinery in minerals, sand and aggregate applications.
The purpose of this research is to investigate the fatigue behaviour in the gigacycle domain (>109 cycles) for S275JR+AR grade steel.
This is achieved using accelerated ultrasonic fatigue testing in as-manufactured, pre-corroded and non-zero mean stress conditions.
As internal heat generation is a massive challenge for ultrasonic fatigue testing of structural steels which exhibit a pronounced frequency effect, effective temperature control is crucial for implementation of testing.
The frequency effect is assessed by comparing the test data at 20 kHz and 15-20 Hz.
Its contribution is significant, as there is no overlap between the stress ranges of interest.
The obtained data are intended to be applied to the fatigue assessments of the equipment operating at the frequency for up to 1010 cycles over years of continuous service.
In this work, the stabilities of secondary phases, including carbides, brittle phases, and inclusions, were simulated by computational thermodynamics.
Calphad strategical optimization is preferable for all steel alloys regarding energy resource consumption during manufacturing and processing.
The alloy composition has been changed to enhance the strength, hardenability, and longevity of a reactor pressure vessel (RPV) steel by computing the phase equilibrium calculations and predicting mechanical properties such as yield and tensile strengths hardness and martensitic and bainitic volume fractions.
The stabilities of the pro-eutectoid carbides (cementite), inclusions, and brittle phases in SA508 steel are critical to the toughness and fatigue life related to the crack initiation and expansion of this steel.
Overall, the simulations presented in this paper explain the mechanisms that can affect the fatigue resistance and toughness of steel and offer a possible solution to controlling these properties at elevated temperatures by optimizing the steel composition and heat treatment process parameters.
Toward the development of highly durable devices, we investigated the effect of the thermoelastic constants of implantable raw metals and the surface stress distribution on the durability of various types of implant device by thermoelastic stress measurement and by evaluating the effect of the stress concentration.
Surface stress was dynamically calculated from the bending moment, and the modulus of a section of a device was found to be consistent with the surface stress obtained by thermoelastic stress measurement.
The durability limits of various types of bone plate and compression hip screw (CHS) calculated from maximum load vs number of cycles data (L-N data) were close to the notch fatigue strength of the raw material. The concentration factor of an artificial hip stem surface was estimated by comparing the L-N data of the stem and the S-N curve of the raw material. The dynamic analysis of durability by thermoelastic stress measurement is useful for selecting the worst case (a product deteriorating to the most severe state) in medical device design.
Effects of processing parameters on preheated (heat-assisted) clinching process to join aluminum alloy 5052-H32 (AA5052) and thermoplastic carbon-fiber-reinforced-plastic (TP-CFRP) sheets for cross-tension (CT) specimens were first studied.
Preheating was critical since brittle TP-CFRP could be softened to avoid fracturing or cracking during clinching process.
Four processing parameters, including punching force, die depth, heating mode, and heating temperature, were considered.
Quasi-static tests and microscope observations were taken to evaluate AA5052/TP-CFRP clinch joints in CT specimens and determine appropriate processing parameters for fatigue tests.
Finally, fatigue data and failure mode of clinch joints in CT specimens were obtained and discussed.
The analysis of cumulative fatigue damage is an important factor in predicting the life of composite elements and structures that are exposed to field load histories.
A method for predicting the fatigue life of composite laminates under varying loads is suggested in this paper.
A new theory of cumulative fatigue damage is introduced grounded on the Continuum Damage Mechanics approach that links the damage rate to cyclic loading through the damage function.
A new damage function is examined with respect to hyperbolic isodamage curves and remaining life characteristics.
The nonlinear damage accumulation rule that is presented in this study utilizes only one material property and overcomes the limitations of other rules while maintaining implementation simplicity.
The benefits of the proposed model and its correlation with other relevant techniques are demonstrated, and a broad range of independent fatigue data from the literature is used for comparison to investigate its performance and validate its reliability.
In this study a restored mandibular molar with different Class II amalgam preparations was examined to analyze the potential for restoration failure attributed to cyclic fatigue crack growth.
A finite element analysis was used to determine the stress distribution along the cavo-surface margin which results from occlusal loading of each restoration.
The cyclic crack growth rate of sub-surface flaws located along the dentinal cavo-surface margin were determined utilizing the Paris law.
Based on similarities in material properties and lack of fatigue property data for dental biomaterials, the cyclic fatigue crack growth parameters for engineering ceramics were used to approximate the crack growth behavior.
It was found that flaws located within the dentine along the buccal and lingual margins can significantly reduce the fatigue life of restored teeth.
Sub-surface cracks as short as 25 microm were found capable of promoting tooth fracture well within 25 years from the time of restoration.
Furthermore, cracks longer than 100 microm reduced the fatigue life to less than 5 years.
Consequently, sub-surface cracks introduced during cavity preparation with conventional dental burrs may serve as a principal source for premature restoration failure.
The intricate shape of Ti-6Al-4V anatomic hip prostheses necessitates the use of casting as a fabrication method, since neither machining, nor forging or powder metallurgial processing are reasonably acceptable.
Cast and hot isostatically pressed Ti-6Al-4V, however, has a relatively low ductility and reduced fatigue properties.
Appropriate thermal treatments can improve these properties.
Specifically, treatments comprising a beta-solutionizing and an aging step yield ductilities similar to the forged and annealed condition, and fatigue properties 11.5% above the non-treated condition.
Such treatments produce small alpha-beta platelet colonies with a ragged, tortuous morphology.
The reduction of scatter in fatigue strength is the result of the formation of this well controlled microstructure.
The transverse cracking behavior of a carbon-fiber-reinforced plastic (CFRP) cross-ply laminate is investigated using a fatigue test and an entropy-based failure criterion in this study.
The results of fatigue experiments show that the crack accumulation behavior depends on the cyclic number level and frequency, in which two obvious transverse cracks are observed after 10
This paper presents the problem of the description of fatigue cracking development in metallic constructional materials.
Fatigue crack growth models (mostly empirical) are usually constructed using a stress intensity factor Δ
The paving layer on the steel box girder bridge deck is widely used when constructing pavements for steel bridges.
Owing to the orthotropic feature of steel decks, a transverse clapboard and rib can lead to a concentration of stress.
Consequently, fatigue cracks are often identified in asphalt concrete pavement layers due to re-compaction caused by heavy vehicles.
This study aims to derive an evaluation method of fatigue life for asphalt pavement based on the inhomogeneous Poisson stochastic process in view of the highly random and uncertain working conditions of layered composite structures.
According to the inhomogeneous Poisson stochastic process, along with Miner's fatigue damage accumulation theory and the linear elastic fracture mechanics theory, the fatigue life formula could be deduced.
Meanwhile, fatigue experiments for asphalt concrete are designed to investigate the correlation between the theoretical formula and the actual fatigue damage life of the material. Compared with the test, the accuracy error is within 10%, which is better than other traditional methods.
Therefore, the fatigue life prediction model could better reflect the loading order effect and the interaction between loads, providing a new path for the fatigue reliability design of steel bridge deck asphalt pavement.
Fracture-mechanics tests were performed to characterize the cyclic fatigue, stress-corrosion cracking, and fracture-toughness behavior of a pyrolytic carbon-coated graphite composite material used in the manufacture of cardiac valve prostheses.
Testing was carried out using compact tension C(T) samples containing "atomically" sharp precracks, both in room-temperature air and principally in a simulated physiological environment of 37 degrees C Ringer's lactate solution.
Under sustained (monotonic) loads, the composite exhibited resistance-curve behavior, with a fracture toughness (KIc) between 1.1 and 1.9 MPa square root of m, and subcritical stress-corrosion crack velocities (da/dt) which were a function of the stress intensity K raised to the 74th power (over the range approximately 10(-9) to over 10(-5) m/s).
More importantly, contrary to common perception, under cyclic loading conditions the composite was found to display true (cyclic) fatigue failure in both environments; fatigue-crack growth rates (da/dN) were seen to be a function of the 19th power of the stress-intensity range delta K (over the range approximately 10(-11) to over 10(-8) m/cycle).
As subcritical crack velocities under cyclic loading were found to be many orders of magnitude faster than those measured under equivalent monotonic loads and to occur at typically 45% lower stress-intensity levels, cyclic fatigue in pyrolytic carbon-coated graphite is reasoned to be a vital consideration in the design and life-prediction procedures of prosthetic devices manufactured from this material.
Three-dimensional (3D) printing is one of the significant industrial manufacturing methods in the modern era.
Many materials are used for 3D printing; however, as the most used material in fused deposition modelling (FDM) technology, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) offers good mechanical properties.
It is perfect for making structures for industrial applications in complex environments.
Three-dimensional printing parameters, including building orientation, layers thickness, and nozzle size, critically affect the crack growth in FDM structures under complex loads.
Therefore, this paper used the dynamic bending vibration test to investigate their influence on fatigue crack growth (FCG) rate under dynamic loads and the Paris power law constant C and m.
The paper proposed an analytical solution to determine the stress intensity factor (SIF) at the crack tip based on the measurement of structural dynamic response.
The experimental results show that the lower ambient temperature, as well as increased nozzle size and layer thickness, provide a lower FCG rate.
The printing orientation, which is the same as loading, also slows the crack growth.
The linear regression between these parameters and Paris Law's coefficient also proves the same conclusion.
The aim of this study is to assess the shrinkage-induced cuspal deformation and strength of large MOD restorations using three different short fiber-reinforced composite resins (SFRC).
Twenty-seven typodont teeth #30 (Columbia) received a standardized slot-type preparation (5-mm by 5-mm depth and bucco-palatal width).
Three types of SFRCs (everX Posterior, everX Flow, and a 50/50 mixture of both materials) were used with the Optibond FL bonding system.
The intercuspal distance of each specimen (n = 9) was measured after preparation, immediately after restoration and at 3, 18, and 24 h.
Each specimen was then subjected to simulated mastication (30° angulation with cyclic loading of buccal cusp at 5 Hz), starting at 100 N with 100 N increase every 100 cycles until fracture.
Failure mode was determined as re-restorable versus nonrestorable failures.
Cusp deformation data were analyzed by two-way repeated measures ANOVA and the fracture performance by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis.
Shrinkage-induced cuspal deformation ranged from 27-34 microns (immediately) to 33-43 microns (24 h).
The largest deformations were observed for everX Flow and the 50/50 mixture (up to 43 microns at 24 h), which also demonstrated the lowest average strength (1456 to 1511 N). everX Posterior demonstrated the least amount of shrinkage-induced cuspal deformation (27 microns, up 33 microns at 24 h) and the higher average strength (1744 N). everX Flow tended to demonstrate more repairable partial fractures while everX Posterior induced mainly catastrophic failures.
Large direct MOD restorations were most favorably restored with everX Posterior (less shrinkage, higher strength) at the expense of failure mode. everX Flow induced more friendly failure modes but more shrinkage-induced cuspal deformation.
When a low-cost restoration must be chosen, EverX Posterior will significantly improve the performance but not the failure mode of directly layered restorations.
Because of its increased shrinkage values, everX Flow is best indicated as a limited liner to cover the IDS layer and improve geometry for semi-(in)direct restorations.
The use of hydrogen-blended natural gas presents an efficacious pathway toward the rapid, large-scale implementation of hydrogen energy, with pipeline transportation being the principal method of conveyance.
However, pipeline materials are susceptible to hydrogen embrittlement in high-pressure hydrogen environments.
Natural gas contains various impurity gases that can either exacerbate or mitigate sensitivity to hydrogen embrittlement.
In this study, we analyzed the mechanisms through which multiple impurity gases could affect the hydrogen embrittlement behavior of pipeline steel.
We examined the effects of O
This research presents a quantitative analysis of TC17 alloy subjected to ultrasonic shot peening (USP) treatment.
The effects of USP treatment under different Almen intensities on surface roughness, microstructure, plastic strain range, microhardness, residual stress, fatigue behavior and strain gradient of TC17 alloy were analyzed.
Results show that increasing Almen intensity from 0.15 mmA to 0.25 mmA leads to a 27% increase in surface roughness, a 12% increase in surface compressive residual stress value, a 29% increase in the depth of compressive residual stress layer, and a 6.7% increase in the maximum value of compressive residual stress.
Microstructural analysis reveals material stacking, pores, and microcracks on the specimen surface and grain refinement characteristics in the surface and subsurface layers.
Strain gradient analysis shows that the deformation layer depth is uniformly distributed.
An increase in Almen intensity leads to a higher degree of plastic deformation and work hardening, and the increase in compressive residual stress layer depth counteracts early fatigue failure caused by high roughness.
Shot peening is widely used for improving mechanical properties especially fatigue behavior of metallic components by inducing surface hardening, compressive residual stresses and surface grain refinement.
In air blast shot peening, projection pressure and surface coverage (an index of peening duration) have been considered as major controlling process parameters; the combination of these parameters plays a critical role in the beneficial effects of shot peening.
Generally in severe shot peening aimed at obtaining surface grain refinement, constant values of pressure are considered with different peening durations.
Considering very high peening duration, however, the phenomenon of over shot peening, which can be identified with the formation of surface defects could occur.
The present study introduces a novel shot peening treatment, here called gradient severe shot peening (GSSP) that instead of using constant projection pressure, implements gradually increasing or decreasing pressures.
The gradual increase of the projection pressure acts as a pre-hardening stage for the following higher projection pressure boosting the potential of the material to tolerate the sequential impacts and thus become less prone to the formation of surface defects.
The results of the experiments indicate significant fatigue life improvement obtained for GSSP treated specimens compared to the standard treatment with constant pressure.
GSSP avoids the detrimental effects of over-peening, while maintaining the beneficial effects of surface nano-crystallization, surface hardening and compressive residual stresses.
The notable difference in fatigue strength enhancement for GSSP treated material can be also attributed to the modulated surface morphology with lower surface roughness compared to a standard shot peening treatment with the same exposure time.
This article presents an experimental study on the fatigue behaviour of cracks emanating from cold-expanded holes utilizing thermoelastic stress analysis (TSA) and synchrotron X-ray diffraction (SXRD) techniques with the aim of resolving the long-standing ambiguity in the literature regarding potential relaxation, or modification, of beneficial compressive residual stresses as a result of fatigue crack propagation.
The crack growth rates are found to be substantially lower as the crack tip moved through the residual stress zone induced by cold expansion.
The TSA results demonstrated that the crack tip plastic zones were reduced in size by the presence of the residual compressive stresses induced by cold expansion.
The crack tip plastic zones were found to be insignificant in size in comparison to the residual stress zone resulting from cold expansion, which implied that they were unlikely to have had a notable impact on the surrounding residual stresses induced by cold expansion.
The residual stress distributions measured along the direction of crack growth, using SXRD, showed no signs of any significant stress relaxation or redistribution, which validates the conclusions drawn from the TSA data.
Fractographic analysis qualitatively confirmed the influence on crack initiation of the residual stresses induced by the cold expansion.
It was found that the application of single compressive overload caused a relaxation, or reduction in the residual stresses, which has wider implications for improving the fatigue life.
We extend, reformulate and analyse a phenomenological model for bone remodelling.
The original macrobiomechanical model (MBM), proposed by Hazelwood et al. [J Biomech 2001; 34:299-308], couples a population equation for the cellular activities of the basic multicellular units (BMUs) in the bone and a rate equation to account for microdamage and repair.
We propose to account for bone failure under severe overstressing by incorporating a Paris-like power-law damage accumulation term.
The extended model agrees with the Hazelwood et al. predictions when the bone is under-stressed, and allows for suitably loaded bones to fail, in agreement with other MBM and experimental data regarding damage by fatigue.
We numerically solve the extended model using a convergent algorithm and show that for unchanging loads, the stationary solution captures fully the model behaviour.
We compute and analyse the stationary solutions.
Our analysis helps guide additional extensions to this and other BMU activity based models.
Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM) is an extensively employed additive manufacturing method for producing precise and complicated polymer models, with its industrial applications expanding under various loading conditions.
A review of existing research highlights the insufficient investigation of the influence of geometric discontinuities in additively manufactured polylactic acid (PLA) members under fatigue loads.
This study aims to analyze the combined effects of build orientation and geometric discontinuities on the static and fatigue performance and damage evolution of 3D-printed PLA.
To achieve improved fabrication quality and minimize process-induced defects, the quasi-static tensile tests were conducted on specimens printed in on-edge orientation with a concentric infill pattern and the flat direction with a rectilinear infill pattern.
The test results have shown that on-edge-printed objects have reduced micro-voids and improved layer bonding, resulting in a 19% increase in tensile strength compared to the flat-printed specimens.
Consequently, this configuration was adopted for three specimen types, e.g., smooth, semi-circular edge-notched, and central-holed, tested under axial fatigue with a 0.05 load ratio.
Fatigue test findings indicate that the stress concentration is more pronounced around central holes than near edge notches, leading to shorter fatigue life.
This phenomenon is consistent with its effects under static tensile loading.
Furthermore, using Digital Image Correlation (DIC) technique, damage initiation, progression, and failure mechanisms were analyzed in detail.
According to fractographic analysis, the micro-voids in the 3D-printed specimens serve as potential regions for the initiation of multiple fatigue cracks.
Additionally, the inherent internal defects can interact with geometric discontinuities, thereby weakening the fatigue performance.
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a common treatment for recurrent or residual pituitary adenomas.
The persistence of symptoms and treatment related complications may impair the patient's quality of life (QOL).
The purpose of this study was to examine symptom distress, QOL, and the relationship between them among patients with pituitary tumors who had undergone SRS.
This study used a cross-sectional design and purposive sampling.
We enrolled patients diagnosed with pituitary tumors who had undergone SRS.
Data were collected at the CyberKnife Center at a medical center in Northern Taiwan in 2012.
A questionnaire survey was used for data collection.
Our questionnaire consisted of 3 parts the Pituitary Tumor Symptom Distress Questionnaire, the World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument Short-Form (WHOQOL-BREF), and a demographic questionnaire.
Sixty patients were enrolled in the study.
The most common symptoms reported by patients after SRS were memory loss, fatigue, blurred vision, headache, sleep problems, and altered libido.
The highest and lowest scores for QOL were in the environmental and psychological domains, respectively.
Age was positively correlated with general health and the psychological domains.
Level of symptom distress was negatively correlated with overall QOL, general health, physical health, and the psychological and social relationships domains.
The scores in the psychological and environmental domains were higher in males than in females.
Patients with ≤6 symptoms had better overall QOL, general health, physical health, and psychological and social relationships than those with >6 symptoms.
Symptom distress can affect different aspects of patient QOL.
Levels of symptom distress, number of symptoms, age, and gender were variables significantly correlated with patient QOL.
These results may be utilized by healthcare personnel to design educational and targeted interventional programs for symptom management to improve patient QOL.
A limited number of reports exist regarding the systematic investigation or comparison of the fatigue strength of titanium alloys for medical devices, including plain, fretting and notch fatigue, for improvement through various treatments and processes, with respect to related microstructures.
This article focuses on the changes and improvements in fatigue strength of newly developed beta-type and practically used alpha + beta-titanium alloys for medical devices through heat treatments, thermomechanical treatments and surface modifications.
Fracture of the femoral stem in total hip arthroplasty (THA) is a rare complication.
We have encountered 2 cases of neck fractures of the femoral stem occurring 9 and 12 years after THA.
Morphological and biomechanical analysis were performed to investigate the mechanism of these fractures.
A titanium alloy femoral stem having a slot with sharp corners (R = 0.2 mm) at the neck had been implanted in both cases.
Fracture surfaces were examined by use of scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Stress concentration was simulated by using a finite element method (FEM) to compare slots with sharp (R = 0.2 mm) and smooth (R = 2 mm) corners.
Study of the retrieved stems revealed that neck fractures had occurred at the distal end of the slot in both cases.
SEM revealed numerous fine fissures extending from the anterolateral edge, striations on the middle of the fracture surface, and dimples on the posteromedial surface, suggesting that the fractures had occurred from the anterolateral aspect toward the posteromedial aspect because of metallic fatigue.
FEM analysis showed that mechanical stress was concentrated at the distal and anterolateral corners of the slot.
Under 3500-N loading force, the stress at the sharp corner was 556 MPa, which was approximately twofold that at the smooth corner and exceeded the fatigue strength of titanium alloy.
These findings showed that the sharp corner of slot increased stress concentrations at the anterolateral aspect and led to the neck fractures.
Recycling agents provide better additions of reclaimed asphalt pavement (RAP) in the production of new asphalt mixtures.
Alternative and residual materials that have the potential as asphalt binder viscosity reducers have gained visibility in the field of paving due to the perspective of circular economy in recycled mixtures.
Soybean oil sludge fatty acid is a material produced from soybean oil sludge, a waste generated in the soybean oil refining step.
Thus, this paper investigated the physical, chemical, and rheological effects of the asphalt binder PG 64-XX modified by the fatty acid of soybean oil sludge in the contents of 6% and 7% by weight of the binder.
The modified binder samples were submitted to penetration tests, softening point, rotational viscosity, performance grade (PG), before and after short-term aging (RTFO), and multiple stress creep and recovery (MSCR).
A control asphalt mixture and recycled asphalt mixtures produced with 40% RAP and fatty acid-modified binders were subjected to tensile strength, induced moisture damage, resilient modulus, and fatigue life.
A Student's t statistical test verified the significance of the data, as well as the estimation of production costs of these asphalt mixtures.
The use of the fatty acid significantly reduced the stiffness and viscosity of the control asphalt binder, decreasing the mixing temperatures at 14 °C and 17 °C to 6% and 7%, respectively.
Using higher fatty acid contents from soybean oil sludge significantly improved the performance of recycled mixtures in tensile strength, moisture damage, and fatigue life.
The production cost of recycled asphalt mixtures was lower than that of the control mixture.
The fatigue performance of additively manufactured auxetic meta-biomaterials made from commercially pure titanium has been studied only recently.
While certain assumptions have been made regarding the mechanisms underlying their fatigue failure, the exact mechanisms are not researched yet.
Here, we studied the mechanisms of crack formation and propagation in cyclically loaded auxetic meta-biomaterials.
Twelve different designs were subjected to compression-compression fatigue testing while performing full-field strain measurement using digital image correlation (DIC).
The fatigue tests were stopped at different points before complete specimen failure to study the evolution of damage in the micro-architecture of the specimens using micro-computed tomography (micro-CT).
Furthermore, finite element models were made to study the presence of stress concentrations.
Structural weak spots were found in the inverted nodes and the vertical struts located along the outer rim of the specimens, matching the maximum principal strain concentrations and fracture sites in the DIC and micro-CT data.
Cracks were often found to originate from internal void spaces or from sites susceptible to mode-I cracking.
Many specimens maintained their structural integrity and exhibited no signs of rapid strain accumulation despite the presence of substantial crack growth.
This observation underlines the importance of such microscale studies to identify accumulated damage that otherwise goes unnoticed.
The potential release of powder particles from damaged lattices could elicit a foreign body response, adversely affecting the implant success.
Finding the right failure criterion, therefore, requires more data than only those pertaining to macroscopic measurements and should always include damage assessment at the microscale.
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The negative Poisson's ratio of auxetic meta-biomaterials makes them expand laterally in response to axial tension.
This extraordinary property has great potential in the field of orthopedics, where it could enhance bone-implant contact.
The fatigue performance of additively manufactured auxetic meta-biomaterials has only recently been studied and was found to be superior to many other bending- and stretch-dominated micro-architectures.
In this study, we go beyond these macroscopic measurements and focus on the crack initiation and propagation.
Full-field strain measurements and 3D imaging are used to paint a detailed picture of the mechanisms underlying fatigue.
Using these data, specific aspects of the design and/or printing process can be targeted to improve the performance of auxetic meta-biomaterials in load-bearing applications.
Cyclic stresses applied to bones generate fatigue damage that affects the bone stiffness and its elastic modulus.
This paper proposes a finite element model for the prediction of fatigue damage accumulation and failure in cancellous bone at continuum scale.
The model is based on continuum damage mechanics and incorporates crack closure effects in compression.
The propagation of the cracks is completely simulated throughout the damaged area.
In this case, the stiffness of the broken element is reduced by 98% to ensure no stress-carrying capacities of completely damaged elements.
Once a crack is initiated, the propagation direction is simulated by the propagation of the broken elements of the mesh.
The proposed model suggests that damage evolves over a real physical time variable (cycles).
In order to reduce the computation time, the integration of the damage growth rate is based on the cycle blocks approach.
In this approach, the real number of cycles is reduced (divided) into equivalent blocks of cycles.
Damage accumulation is computed over the cycle blocks and then extrapolated over the corresponding real cycles.
The results show a clear difference between local tensile and compressive stresses on damage accumulation.
Incorporating stiffness reduction also produces a redistribution of the peak stresses in the damaged region, which results in a delay in damage fracture.
Fatigue failure is one of the most common fracture modes of structural materials in the industrial field.
The study of material fatigue mechanisms and methods for predicting fatigue life has always been of significant interest to researchers due to the abrupt and catastrophic failure mode.
In recent decades, the performance and functionality of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have been continuously improved and expanded.
Based on this, the development of
Limited information exists regarding the in vivo stability of endovascular stents.
Nine excised human vascular segments with implanted stents (n = 16) manufactured from stainless steel, nickel-titanium, tantalum, and cobalt-based alloys were analyzed.
The stent/tissue components were separated using an established tissue dissolution protocol and control and explanted stents were evaluated by digital optical and electron microscopy.
Metallic content in surrounding tissues was measured by mass spectroscopy.
Surface alterations, consistent with corrosion mediated by electrochemical and mechanical factors, were observed in 9 of the 16 explanted stents and were absent from control stents.
Tissue dissolved from around corroded stents corresponded with a higher metallic content.
The effect of these changes in the microtopography of stents on their mechanical properties (fatigue strength and fracture limit) in addition to the potential for released metallic debris contributing to the biological mechanisms of in-stent restenosis supports the need for further investigations.
INTRODUCTION The long-term stability in cemented hip arthroplasty depends not only on the mechanical properties of the acrylic bone cements but also on an improvement of cementing techniques.
The bending strengths of 15 commonly used bone cements (CMW 3 Gentamycin; CMW 3; Refobacin Palacos R; Palacos R; Palamed G; Palamed; Cerafixgenta; Cerafix; Duracem; Simplex Tobramycin; Simplex P; Versabond; Sulcem; Sulcem 3 Genta; Copal) have been mechanically tested in a standardised in vitro four-point bending test (ISO 5833).
The fatigue fracture surfaces were morphologically analysed with light microscopy.
The highest values of bending strength were found in vacuum mixed specimens cured under pressure.
The lowest values of strength were seen in with blood contaminated specimens.
Fatigue cracks were often initiated from air bubbles or other inclusions such as antibiotics or blood in the bone cement.
The present in vitro study highlights the supposition that the quality of the cementing technique is of eminent importance in determining the long-term stability of cemented hip arthroplasties.
Based on three-dimensional scanning technology, a database of real block stone shapes with varying particle sizes was established, and discrete element models of reinforced concrete with different corrosion rates were developed, accounting for the particle crushing effect.
Four-point bending fatigue numerical simulations were conducted on reinforced concrete models with corrosion rates of 0%, 10%, 25%, and 40% to investigate their mechanical characteristics, failure modes, damage evolution, force chain distribution, and energy dissipation.
The aim was to reveal the influence mechanism of corrosion on the fatigue performance of reinforced concrete.The results show that for uncorroded specimens, the stiffness ratio decreases gradually, with a residual stiffness of 60%.
At a corrosion rate of 40%, the stiffness ratio exhibits a cliff-like drop, leaving only 30% residual stiffness.
Deflection growth is markedly accelerated, and the deformation capacity of the structure deteriorates significantly.
In terms of failure mode, corrosion causes a gradual transition from ductile bending failure to brittle shear failure.
This shift indicates a substantial reduction in both load-bearing capacity and structural safety margin.
Damage process analysis reveals that acoustic emission intensity progresses through three stages: micro-crack initiation, stable crack propagation, and rapid crack expansion leading to structural instability.
Corrosion accelerates both the initiation and propagation of micro-cracks, causing rapid accumulation and coalescence of internal damage.
This process is accompanied by the absorption and release of strain energy, with the peak strain energy of highly corroded specimens decreasing by more than 80%.
Regarding force chain distribution, uncorroded specimens have 25% of their force-chains classified as strong, forming an optimal load-transfer path oriented at approximately 45°.
As the corrosion rate increases, the proportion of strong force-chains gradually declines.
Bone remodeling is necessary to avoid microdamage accumulation, which could lead to whole-bone failure.
Previous studies have shown that this bone-repair mechanism is triggered by osteocyte apoptosis.
Through the use of a rodent hindlimb suspension model and tibial four-point bending model, the effects of disuse on microdamage remodeling was examined.
At day 0, male rats were assigned to one of three groups: weight bearing (WB), hindlimb suspension (HS), or hindlimb suspension with daily intermittent weight bearing following damage-inducing loading (HW).
Within each group, the rats were further divided into subgroups corresponding to three sacrifice time points [day 14 (WB and HS only), day 18, or day 35].
At day 14, animals were anesthetized, and their left tibiae underwent cyclic four-point bending to produce fatigue-induced microdamage.
At sacrifice, the tibiae were examined using 3D micro-computed tomography (microCT), flow cytometry, and histologic and immunohistochemical stains.
The results indicate that only the WB and HW groups had a significant increase in intracortical TRAP-positive resorption pits following damage induction, which was paralleled by a significant decrease in microdamage over time in combination with a shift in the osteoclast lineage owing to a decrease in monocytes.
These results demonstrate that osteocyte apoptosis may be insufficient for repair of microdamage without the stimulation provided through physiologic loading.
In addition, this potentially could have clinical implications for the current therapeutic paradigm for treating stress fractures, where extended non-weight bearing is employed.
Cyclic and low-magnitude loading promotes osteogenesis (i.e. new bone formation).
Normal strain, strain energy density and fatigue damage accumulation are typically considered as osteogenic stimuli in computer models to predict site-specific new bone formation.
These models however had limited success in explaining osteogenesis near the sites of minimal normal strain, for example, neutral axis of bending.
Other stimuli such as fluid motion or strain gradient also stimulate bone formation.
In silico studies modeled the new bone formation as a function of fluid motion, however, computation of fluid motion involves complex mathematical calculations.
Strain gradients drive fluid flow and thus can also be established as the stimulus.
Osteogenic potential of strain gradients is however not well established.
The present study establishes strain gradients as osteogenic stimuli.
Bending-induced strain gradients are computed at cortical bone cross-sections reported in animal loading in vivo studies.
Correlation analysis between strain gradients and site of osteogenesis is analyzed.
In silico model is also developed to test the osteogenic potential of strain gradients.
The model closely predicts in vivo new bone distribution as a function of strain gradients.
The outcome establishes strain gradient as computationally easy and robust stimuli to predict site-specific osteogenesis.
The present study may be useful in the development of biomechanical approaches to mitigate bone loss.
This study was conducted to evaluate the fatigue parameters of a model porcelain based on the Weinstein patent using cyclic fatigue and to compare the parametric values obtained from cyclic fatigue tests with those from dynamic fatigue tests previously reported by Fairhurst et al. (1993).
Cyclical biaxial flexure of 1 mm thick and 12 mm diameter disks was performed at 37 degrees C in distilled water at a frequency of 4 Hz with constant stressing rates between a minimum and maximum stress.
Three groups of samples (50, 40, 40) were tested with a maximum stress of 51, 47, and 43 MPa, respectively.
The crack growth exponent, n, and the scaling constant, sigma fo, were derived from the regression constants obtained from a linear regression of the logarithm of the median time to failure with the logarithm of the maximum stress.
No significant differences were found between the cyclic fatigue parameters, n and sigma fo, derived from the median time to failure and those obtained from dynamic fatigue data.
Within the limits of error in this determination, the median cyclic fatigue life can be estimated by the use of fatigue parameters obtained from dynamic fatigue testing.
Cold rolling is widely used for screw thread manufacturing in industry but is less common in implant dentistry, where cutting is the preferred manufacturing method.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to compare the surface finish and mechanical performance of a specific model of prosthetic screw used for direct restorations manufactured by thread rolling and cutting.
The thread profiles were measured in an optical measuring machine, the residual stresses in an X-ray diffractometer, the surface finish in a scanning electron microscope, and then fatigue and static load tests were carried out in a direct stress test bench according to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14801.
Finally, linear regression models and 95% interval confidence bands were calculated and compared through ANCOVA for fatigue tests while the t test was used for statistical comparisons (α=.05).
The surface finish was smoother, and compressive residual stresses were higher for the roll-threaded screws.
Linear regression models showed a fatigue life 9 times higher for roll-threaded screws (P=1) without affecting static behavior, which showed statistically similar static strengths (P=.54).
However, the thread profile in the roll-threaded screws was not accurately reproduced, but this should be easily corrected in future prototypes.
Rolling was demonstrated to be a better thread-manufacturing process for prosthetic screws, producing improved surface quality and fatigue behavior.
In the present work, the influence of different environments on the fatigue crack growth behaviour of 12% Cr steam turbine blade steel is investigated.
Fatigue crack growth rates (FCGRs) in the near threshold regime are measured with ultrasonic fatigue testing technique.
Fatigue tests are performed in vacuum, air and different aqueous environments with defined chloride and oxygen content.
Furthermore, the influence of different stress ratios is investigated.
It is found that crack propagation is not necessarily enhanced with increasing corrosiveness.
In the aqueous environments, the FCGRs below 10⁻⁸ m/cycle are lower than in air.
The threshold stress intensity factor ranges are higher or equal. Observation of the fracture surfaces shows oxide formation and partly intergranular fracture for specimens tested in aqueous environments.
Crack closure effects seem to be responsible for this unexpected behaviour.
The application of biodegradable magnesium-based materials in the biomedical field is highly restricted by their low fatigue strength and high corrosion rate in biological environments.
Herein, we treated the surface of a biocompatible magnesium alloy AZ31 by severe shot peening in order to evaluate the potential of surface grain refinement to enhance this alloy's functionality in a biological environment.
The AZ31 samples were studied in terms of micro/nanostructural, mechanical, and chemical characteristics in addition to cytocompatibility properties.
The evolution of surface grain structure and surface morphology were investigated using optical, scanning and transmission electron microscopy.
Surface roughness, wettability, and chemical composition, as well as in depth-microhardness and residual stress distribution, fatigue behaviour and corrosion resistance were investigated.
Cytocompatibility tests with osteoblasts (bone forming cells) were performed using sample extracts.
The results revealed for the first time that severe shot peening can significantly enhance mechanical properties of AZ31 without causing adverse effects on the growth of surrounding osteoblasts.
The corrosion behavior, on the other hand, was not improved; nevertheless, removing the rough surface layer with a high density of crystallographic lattice defects, without removing the entire nanocrystallized layer, provided a good potential for improving corrosion characteristics after severe shot peening and thus, this method should be studied for a wide range of orthopedic applications in which biodegradable magnesium is used.
A major challenge for most commonly used metals for bio-implants is their non-biodegradability that necessitates revision surgery for implant retrieval when used as fixation plates, screws, etc.
Magnesium is reported among the most biocompatible metals that resorb over time without adverse tissue reactions and is indispensable for many biochemical processes in human body.
However, fast and uncontrolled degradation of magnesium alloys in the physiological environment in addition to their inadequate mechanical properties especially under repeated loading have limited their application in the biomedical field.
The present study providesdata on the effect of a relatively simple surface nanocrystallziation method with high potential to tailor the mechanical and chemical behavior of magnesium based material while maintaining its cytocompatibility.
Utilizing solar energy to evaporate seawater or sewage to improve water quality is an environment-friendly and sustainable water treatment technology, which has been widely concerned.
However, there are still many challenges for efficient solar vapor generation, such as incapable free floating, low water-transfer rates, low energy efficiency, serious salt precipitation, and short service life.
Herein, photothermal conversion nanofibrous aerogels (PTCNFAs) with vertically aligned microchannels inside are fabricated.
Because of the orderly framework structure and the good hydrophilicity, the PTCNFAs show excellent underwater compressive fatigue durability (nearly no plastic deformation after 50 compressive cycles) and water-transfer rate (0.5 cm s
Rupture discs are critical safety devices for pressure vessels, yet defining replacement intervals for discs that have not ruptured remains challenging due to limited quantitative life-prediction methods.
This study investigates forward-acting rupture discs made of 316 L stainless steel and Inconel 600 under three test conditions: low pressure at room temperature, low pressure at elevated temperature, and ultra-high pressure at elevated temperature.
Static hold life and fatigue life were measured over a range of operating ratios
This paper summarises four separate studies carried out by our group over the past number of years in the area of bone microdamage.
The first study investigated the manner by which microcracks accumulate and interact with bone microstructure during fatigue testing of compact bone specimens.
In a series of fatigue tests carried out at four different stress ranges between 50 and 80 MPA, crack density increased with loading cycles at a rate determined by the applied stress.
Variations in the patterns of microdamage accumulation suggest that that at low stress levels, larger amounts of damage can build up without failure occurring.
In a second study using a series of four-pont bending tests carried out on ovine bone samples, it was shown that bone microstructure influenced the ability of microcracks to propagate, with secondary osteons acting as barriers to crack growth.
In a third study, the manner by which crack growth disrupts the canalicular processes connecting osteocytes was investigated.
Analysis of individual cracks showed that disruption of the canalicular processes connecting osteocytes occurred due to shear displacement at the face of propagating microcracks, suggesting that this may play some role in the mechanism that signals bone remodelling.
In a fourth in vivo study, it was shown that altering the mechanical load applied to the long bones of growing rats causes microcrack formation.
In vivo microdamage was present in rats subjected to hindlimb suspension with a higher microcrack density found in the humeri than the femora.
Microdamage was also found in control animals.
This is the first study to demonstrate in vivo microcracks in normally loaded bones in a rat model.
Microdamage accumulates in bone due to repetitive or excessive mechanical loading, and accumulation of damage can lead to an increase in fracture susceptibility.
Understanding the stress or strain criterion for damage formation would allow improved predictive modeling to better assess experimental results or evaluate training regimens.
Finite element models coupled with three-dimensional measurements of damage were used to directly correlate damage formation to the local strain state in whole rat femora subjected to three-point bending fatigue.
Images of accumulated damage from contrast-enhanced micro-CT were overlaid onto the calculated strain result to determine the strain associated with damage.
Most microdamage accumulated in areas where the first principal strain exceeded 0.5%, but damage also occurred at lower strains when applied over sufficiently large volumes.
As such, a single threshold strain was not a good predictor of damage.
In order to capture the apparently stochastic nature of damage formation, a Weibull statistical model was applied.
The model provided a good fit to the data, and a fit based on a subset of the data was able to predict the results in the remaining samples with an RMS error of 17%.
These results demonstrate that damage formation is dependent on principal strain, but has a random component that is likely due to the presence of pores or flaws smaller than the resolution of the model that act as stress concentrations in bone.
We report and analyze the causes of a fracture in a proximally modular, distally tapered fluted MP stem in a 48-year-old woman (168 cm, 67 kg) with severe proximal bone deficiency.
Evidence of fatigue failure with striations initiated laterally was observed in the laser etching of the tensile aspect of the prosthesis.
However, metallurgical analysis suggested that laser engraving did not alter the microstructure of the stem.
Stress due to the absence of proximal femoral bone support may have been sufficiently high to put this particular stem at risk for fatigue fracture.
This important complication should be addressed when choosing this therapeutic option in cases with substantial proximal femoral bone loss.
Strut allograft support should be recommended in such cases.
To fulfil the new challenges of the German "Energiewende" more efficient, sustainable, flexible and cost-effective energy technologies are strongly needed.
For a reduction of consumed primary resources higher efficiency steam cycles with increased operating parameters, pressure and temperature, are mandatory.
Therefore advanced materials are needed.
The present study focuses on a new concept of high chromium, fully ferritic steels.
These steels, originally designed for solid oxide fuel cell applications, provide favourable steam oxidation resistance, creep and thermomechanical fatigue behaviour in comparison to conventional ferritic-martensitic steels.
The strength of this type of steel is achieved by a combination of solid-solution hardening and precipitation strengthening by intermetallic Laves phase particles.
The effect of alloy composition on particle composition was measured by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and partly verified by thermodynamic modelling results.
Generally the Laves phase particles demonstrated high thermodynamic stability during long-term annealing up to 40,000h at 600°C.
Variations in chemical alloy composition influence Laves phase particle formation and consequently lead to significant changes in creep behaviour.
For this reason particle size distribution evolution was analysed in detail and associated with the creep performance of several trial alloys.
Contact fatigue resistance properties of four commercial steel rails were systematically studied and compared.
The contact fatigue limit cycles, fracture toughness, and fatigue crack growth rate of the corresponding rails with different compression ratios were tested and analyzed, which showed a close relationship between them.
Moreover, microstructures of the rails were carefully observed by using the TEM to elucidate the scientific mechanisms.
Observations and obtained results indicated that pearlite lamellar spacing further decreased with the rise of compression ratio, which greatly and rightly contributed to the improved fatigue resistance property.
Crack propagation in a commercial surgical grade zirconia ceramic was performed under static and cyclic loading.
The slow crack growth (SCG) parameters were determined in both cases.
The results reveal the existence of threshold values of applied stress intensity factor, for both static and cyclic loadings, below which no slow crack growth occurs.
Such threshold values represent one of the best advantages of the present zirconia ceramic compared with other ceramic materials used in orthopedics, which could lead to a strong enhancement of implant lifetime.
This threshold value was also identified by cyclic fatigue tests performed on zirconia femoral heads.
From a new statistical approach based on the Monte Carlo method, the knowledge of SCG behavior, and the help of finite element analysis, an estimate of the lifetime prediction has been made and discussed.
Despite its widespread use in orthopaedic implants such as soft tissue fasteners and spinal intervertebral implants, polyetheretherketone (PEEK) often suffers from poor osseointegration.
Introducing porosity can overcome this limitation by encouraging bone ingrowth; however, the corresponding decrease in implant strength can potentially reduce the implant's ability to bear physiologic loads.
We have previously shown, using a single pore size, that limiting porosity to the surface of PEEK implants preserves strength while supporting in vivo osseointegration.
However, additional work is needed to investigate the effect of pore size on both the mechanical properties and cellular response to PEEK.
(1) Can surface porous PEEK (PEEK-SP) microstructure be reliably controlled?
(2) What is the effect of pore size on the mechanical properties of PEEK-SP?
(3) Do surface porosity and pore size influence the cellular response to PEEK?
PEEK-SP was created by extruding PEEK through NaCl crystals of three controlled ranges: 200 to 312, 312 to 425, and 425 to 508 µm.
Micro-CT was used to characterize the microstructure of PEEK-SP.
Tensile, fatigue, and interfacial shear tests were performed to compare the mechanical properties of PEEK-SP with injection-molded PEEK (PEEK-IM).
The cellular response to PEEK-SP, assessed by proliferation, alkaline phosphatase activity, vascular endothelial growth factor production, and calcium content of osteoblast, mesenchymal stem cell, and preosteoblast (MC3T3-E1) cultures, was compared with that of machined smooth PEEK and Ti6Al4V.
Micro-CT analysis showed that PEEK-SP layers possessed pores that were 284 ± 35 µm, 341 ± 49 µm, and 416 ± 54 µm for each pore size group.
Porosity and pore layer depth ranged from 61% to 69% and 303 to 391 µm, respectively.
Mechanical testing revealed tensile strengths > 67 MPa and interfacial shear strengths > 20 MPa for all three pore size groups.
All PEEK-SP groups exhibited > 50% decrease in ductility compared with PEEK-IM and demonstrated fatigue strength > 38 MPa at one million cycles.
All PEEK-SP groups also supported greater proliferation and cell-mediated mineralization compared with smooth PEEK and Ti6Al4V.
The PEEK-SP formulations evaluated in this study maintained favorable mechanical properties that merit further investigation into their use in load-bearing orthopaedic applications and supported greater in vitro osteogenic differentiation compared with smooth PEEK and Ti6Al4V.
These results are independent of pore sizes ranging 200 µm to 508 µm.
PEEK-SP may provide enhanced osseointegration compared with current implants while maintaining the structural integrity to be considered for several load-bearing orthopaedic applications such as spinal fusion or soft tissue repair.
The literature in the area of material fatigue indicates that the fatigue properties may change with the number of cycles.
Researchers recommend taking this into account in fatigue life calculation algorithms.
The results of simulation research presented in this paper relate to an algorithm for estimating the fatigue life of specimens subjected to block loading with a nonzero mean value.
The problem of block loads using a novel calculation model is presented in this paper.
The model takes into account the change in stress-strain curve parameters caused by mean strain.
Simulation tests were performed for generated triangular waveforms of strains, where load blocks with changed mean strain values were applied.
During the analysis, the degree of fatigue damage was compared.
The results of calculations obtained for standard values of stress-strain parameters (for symmetric loads) and those determined, taking into account changes in the curve parameters, are compared and presented in this paper.
It is shown that by neglecting the effect of the mean strain value on the
This paper aims to characterize the surface damage as a consequence of fretting fatigue in aluminum alloy 7075-T6 plates in double-lap bolted joints through XRD, surface profilometry, and SEM analyses.
The main focus was on the surface roughness and chemical phase composition of the damaged zone along with the identification of fretting fatigue crack initiations over the surface of the material. The surface roughness of the fretted zone was found to increase when the joint was clamped with a higher tightening torque and tested under the same cyclic loading.
Additionally, MgZn₂ (η/ή) precipitates and ZnO phase were found to form onto the surface of uncoated aluminum plate in the fretted and worn zones.
The formation of the ZnO phase was understood to be a result of frictional heat induced between the surface of contacting uncoated Al 7075-T6 plates during cyclic loading and exposure to the air.
The beneficial role of electroless nickel-phosphorous (Ni-P) coatings in minimizing the fretting damage and thus improving the fretting fatigue life of the aluminum plates was also studied.
The results showed that the surface roughness decreased by approximately 40% after applying Ni-P coatings to the Al 7075-T6 plates.
316LN austenitic stainless steel is extensively utilized within the domain of nuclear power, where its susceptibility to high-temperature fatigue and thermomechanical fatigue has emerged as a pivotal area of research for this material. Nevertheless, prior investigations have predominantly concentrated on axial loading outcomes, with a notable absence of studies examining its fatigue failure behavior under torsional loading conditions.
The present study undertakes isothermal fatigue testing at temperatures of 450 °C, 550 °C, and 650 °C, along with thermomechanical fatigue testing across a temperature range of 350-550 °C, with strain amplitudes of 0.6%, 0.8%, and 1.2%.
The findings reveal that secondary hardening observed under conditions of small deformation is primarily attributed to the enhancement of frictional stress, stemming from the accumulation of planar slip.
Furthermore, as the temperature escalates, variations are observed in the intensity of the dynamic strain aging and the dislocation density within the material.
Oily wastewater has caused serious threats to the environment; thus, high-performance absorbing materials for effective oil-water separation technology have attracted increasing attention.
Herein, we develop a magnetic, hydrophobic, and lipophilic hyperporous elastic material (HEM) templated by high internal phase emulsions (HIPE), in which free-radical polymerization of butyl acrylate (BA) and divinylbenzene (DVB) is employed in the presence of poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS), lecithin surfactant, and modified Fe
Deer velvet (DV) has been extensively used in traditional Oriental medicine to treat various diseases.
Its pharmacological spectrum encompasses tonicity, longitudinal bone growth of adolescence, blood retention, hemopoiesis facilitation, enhancement of organ function, physical function improvement, and augmentation of physical vitality.
Among its myriad effects, DV notably exhibits anti-fatigue properties; however, its specific mode of action is yet to be fully elucidated.
This study was undertaken to investigate the anti-fatigue and exercise performance-enhancing effects of YC-1101(HENKIV®), an enzymatically derived DV extract, in C2C12 cell lines and forced swimming mouse models.
The effect of YC-1101 on increasing cell growth and lowering lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity was assessed in C2C12.
The antioxidative effects of YC-1101 and its mechanistic underpinnings were also evaluated in C2C12 cells.
Moreover, mice were subjected to an exhaustive swimming test subsequent to 3 weeks of YC-1101 extract administration.
Fatigue-associated biochemical parameters, such as LDH activity and lactate, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and malondialdehyde levels, were measured in serum and muscle tissues.
YC-1101 significantly promoted myoblast growth and reduced LDH activity, indicative of a cell-proliferative effect.
Notably, free radical scavenging assays and analysis of reactive oxygen species production and antioxidant-related mRNA expression corroborated the significant involvement of YC-1101 in antioxidation, an important mechanism in anti-fatigue processes.
Furthermore, animal experiments demonstrated prolonged swimming endurance and inhibition of muscle LDH accumulation in forced swimming mouse models.
Serum biochemical analysis further revealed significant modulation of the expression of anti-fatigue-related biomarkers.
Various bioactive low-molecular-weight DV peptides were enriched in YC-1101 compared to YHC-BE-2038 (a DV extract without enzymatic digestion).
The anti-fatigue effect of YC-1101 was significantly stronger than that of YHC-BE-2038.
These findings suggest the potential of YC-1101 as a nutraceutical adjunct in ameliorating fatigue, concurrently facilitating muscle damage recovery, and exerting antioxidant effects via the nuclear factor E2-related factor 2-Kelch-like ECH-associated protein-1 pathway.
It can be assumed that the complex action of low-molecular-weight DV peptides produced during the enzymatic degradation process was effective, and the further research is needed.
Limb bones are designed to be strong enough to support the body and yet be energetically conservative during locomotion.
Bones of the distal segment, which are relatively costly to move, are often more slender than bones of the proximal segments, even though they must sustain proportionally greater loads.
As a result, they are expected to experience a higher incidence of microdamage.
With this constraint in mind, Lieberman and Crompton (1998 Principles of Animal Design, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p. 78-86) proposed that bones response to strain varies along the proximo-distal axis of the limb.
In order to avoid fatigue fractures due to the accumulation of microdamage, the distal segment, in comparison to the proximal segment, will have an increase in remodeling events to replace damaged bone.
In this paper, we test the hypothesis of Lieberman and Crompton (1998) with respect to the human lower limb.
With a sample of adult individuals, we compare tibiae and femora for mid-diaphyseal cross-sectional geometry and Haversian remodeling differences.
Our results indicate that the human limb is not designed like that of quadrupedal cursorial animals.
The tibia is not less resistant in bending and torsion, and does not remodel more than the femur.
Our findings fail to support the hypothesis of Lieberman and Crompton (1998) and suggest, instead, that the human lower limb is not designed like a cursorial animal limb.
In addition, our results support previous observations that remodeling is not uniform within the cross section of a bone, probably a reflection of different loading histories within the different regions of the cross section.
It is well known that errors are inevitable in experimental observations, but it is equally unavoidable to eliminate errors in modeling the process leading to the experimental observations.
If estimation and prediction are to be done with reasonable accuracy, the accumulated errors must be adequately managed.
Research in fatigue is challenging because modeling can be quite complex.
Furthermore, experimentation is time-consuming, which frequently yields limited data.
Both of these exacerbate the magnitude of the potential error.
The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate a procedure that combines modeling with independent experimental data to improve the estimation of the cumulative distribution function (cdf) for fatigue life.
Subsequently, the effect of intrinsic error will be minimized.
Herein, a simplified fatigue crack growth modeling is used.
The data considered are a well-known collection of fatigue lives for an aluminum alloy.
For lower applied stresses, the fatigue lives can range over an order of magnitude and up to 10
Load spectrum enhancement is a pivotal accelerated fatigue testing methodology employed to substantially reduce test duration and associated costs.
This technique operates by strategically elevating load amplitudes while ensuring the preservation of the original failure mechanism.
In this study, a novel fatigue life prediction model for variable amplitude loading is developed by integrating the theories of Equivalent Initial Flaw Size (EIFS) and the Equivalent Plastic Zone (EPZ).
This integrated approach explicitly accounts for both the small crack effect and load interaction effects, which are critical yet often oversimplified aspects of fatigue damage accumulation.
The model is subsequently applied to quantitatively establish the relationship between the Load Enhancement Factor (LEF) and the test time or compression ratio.
Finally, fatigue tests on typical 2A14 aluminum alloy structures under variable amplitude loading are conducted to validate the proposed model.
The results demonstrate a significant life reduction with increasing LEF, achieving a remarkable test time reduction of over 50% at an LEF of 1.2.
All experimental data fall within a scatter band of three, relative to the model prediction.
Additionally, the predicted mean compression ratio exhibits approximate agreement with the experimental data, with errors within an acceptable range.
This work provides a physically grounded and practically validated framework for implementing efficient and reliable load spectrum enhancement.
Pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) has a variety of biological functions.
However, rare attention has been paid to its effects on exercise-induced damage.
Here, we assessed the potential protective effects of PQQ against the fatigue and oxidative damage caused by repeated exhaustive exercise, and studied the underlying mechanism.
The models for exercise-induced fatigue were established, and the parameters were measured, including the time to exhaustion (TTE), biochemical indicators, the expression of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and inflammatory cytokines and so on.
Besides, the mitochondrial function was evaluated by the morphology, membrane potential, respiratory function, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels, and the application of the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor.
The results demonstrate that PQQ prolongs TTE, causes the decrease in the activity of serum creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase, increases the activity of antioxidant enzymes, inhibits the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA), and diminishes the over expression of NF-κB (p65) and inflammatory mediators.
Furthermore, PQQ preserves normal mitochondrial function.
Particularly, PQQ reduces the accumulation of ROS triggered by the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor.
These data suggest that PQQ can significantly protect mice from exercise-induced fatigue and oxidative damage by improving mitochondrial function.
These data also suggest that PQQ controls mitochondrial activity through directly affecting the NADH dehydrogenase.
Salidroside (SDS) is the main active ingredient of Rhodiola which has many biological functions including anti-fatigue, anti-tumor, and immune regulation activities.
Our last paper demonstrated that SDS prolonged longevity of the annual fish Nothobranchius guentheri, a promising vertebrate model for anti-aging research.
However, little is known about its effect on insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signaling pathway (IIS pathway).
In this study, we show that SDS is able to decrease accumulation of SA-β-Gal. We also show that SDS administraton could reduce the expression levels of Igf-1 and Igf-1R, downregulate the expressions of p-PI3K and p-Akt and upregulate the expression levels of Sirt1 and Foxo3a, both of which are the downstream regulators of the IIS pathway.
We also find that SDS could alleviate DNA damage, which could result in increased expression of transcription factor Foxo3a.
Collectively, these data indicate that SDS may take part in the IIS pathway.
This work presents the results of metallographic studies and the tensile, impact, and fatigue crack growth (FCG) resistance tests of 17H1S main gas pipeline steel in the as-received (AR) state and after a long-term operation (LTO).
A significant number of non-metallic inclusions forming chains stretched along the direction of pipe rolling were found in the microstructure of the LTO steel.
The lowest values of elongation at break and impact toughness of the steel were determined for the lower part of the pipe close to its inner surface.
FCG tests at a low stress ratio (R = 0.1) did not reveal a significant change in its growth rate in degraded 17H1S steel compared to steel in the AR state.
During tests at a stress ratio R = 0.5, the effect of degradation was more pronounced.
The Paris' law region of the da/dN-∆K diagram for the LTO steel corresponding to the lower part of the pipe close to its inner surface was higher than those for the steel in the AR state and the LTO steel corresponding to the higher part of the pipe.
Fractographically, a significant number of delaminations of non-metallic inclusions from the matrix were recognized.
Their role in the embrittlement of steel, especially steel from the lower part of the pipe close to its inner surface, was noted.
Multiple site damage (MSD) cracks are small fatigue cracks that may accumulate at the sides of highly loaded holes in aging aircraft structures.
The presence of MSD cracks can drastically reduce the residual strength of fuselage panels.
In this paper, artificial neural networks (ANN) modeling is used for predicting the residual strength of aluminum panels with MSD cracks.
Experimental data that include 147 unique configurations of aluminum panels with MSD cracks are used.
The experimental dataset includes three different aluminum alloys (2024-T3, 2524-T3, and 7075-T6), four different test panel configurations (unstiffened, stiffened, stiffened with a broken middle stiffener, and bolted lap-joints), many different panel widths and thicknesses, and the sizes of the lead and MSD cracks.
The results presented in this paper demonstrate that a single ANN model can predict the residual strength for all materials and configurations with high accuracy.
Specifically, the overall mean absolute error for the ANN model predictions is 3.82%.
Furthermore, the ANN model residual strength predictions are compared to those obtained using the most accurate semi-analytical and computational approaches from the literature.
The ANN model predictions are found to be at the same accuracy level of these approaches, and they even outperform the other approaches for many configurations.
In this paper, Ni60/WC wear-resistant coatings have been created on the Ti6Al4V substrate surface using a pre-layered powder laser cladding method by deploying various scanning speeds of 8, 10, 12, and 14 mm/s.
The coatings are characterized through X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and a high-speed reciprocating fatigue wear tester.
It is found that the phase composition of the coating comprises the synthesized, hard phase TiC and TiB
Three-dimensional printing of structural materials, namely, additive manufacturing (AM), has notable advantages in fabricating structurally complex engineering components.
These complex components usually endure comprehensive fatigue examination due to their complex stress distribution with varying stress ratios during service.
Therefore, it is important to ensure the fatigue reliability of additive manufactured materials across all stress ratios.
We found that the AM microstructure itself in a Ti-6Al-4V alloy successfully synthesizes the tripartite advantages of fine prior β grain boundaries, void-free, and fine α grains, which are respectively sensitive to the low, medium, and high stress ratio regions.
Under this synergistic effect, the fatigue performance of the natural AM microstructure across all stress ratios not only outperforms all additive manufactured and forged Ti-6Al-4V alloys, but also surpasses other metallic materials.
Our finding highlights the potential advantage of additive manufacturing technology in producing complex components with high fatigue resistance, substantially expanding its application scope.
LY2603618, a selective inhibitor of checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) and key regulator of the DNA damage checkpoint, may enhance the effects of antimetabolites.
This phase I study defined the recommended phase II dose of LY2603618 combined with gemcitabine.
Patients with advanced/metastatic disease were administered doses of LY2603618 (70-250 mg/m2 or flat-fixed doses of 200 or 230 mg) after gemcitabine (1,000 mg/m2).
Safety and pharmacokinetics (PK) were assessed.
Among the 50 patients enrolled, frequent adverse events possibly related to study drug treatment included fatigue (44%), decreased platelets (42%), decreased neutrophils (32%), nausea (26%), and decreased hemoglobin (20%).
Systemic exposure of LY2603618 increased dose dependently, while clearance was relatively dose independent.
The mean LY2603618 half-life varied; however, the durations were still suitable for maintaining human exposures while minimizing accumulation.
LY2603618 PK were not altered by gemcitabine administration.
Plasma exposures that correlate with the maximal pharmacodynamic effect in nonclinical models were achieved for all doses.
One patient with non-small cell lung cancer carcinoma achieved a partial response; 22 patients had stable disease.
The maximum tolerated dose of LY2603618 combined with gemcitabine was 200 mg/m2, but a fixed LY2603618 dose of 230 mg combined with gemcitabine was selected as the recommended phase II dose.
Two phase titanium alloys are important for high-performance engineering components, such as aeroengine discs.
The microstructures of these alloys are tailored during thermomechanical processing to precisely control phase fractions, morphology and crystallographic orientations.
In bimodal two phase (α + β) Ti-6Al-2Sn-4Zr-2Mo (Ti-6242) alloys there are often three microstructural lengthscales to consider: large (∼10 μm) equiaxed primary α; >200 nm thick plate α with a basketweave morphology; and very fine scaled (<50 nm plate thickness) secondary α that grows between the larger α plates surrounded by retained β.
In this work, we utilise high spatial resolution transmission Kikuchi diffraction (TKD, also known as transmission-based electron backscatter diffraction, t-EBSD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM)-based forward scattering electron imaging to resolve the structures and orientations of basketweave and secondary α in Ti-6242.
Our analysis is important in understanding both the thermomechanical processing strategy of new bimodal two-phase titanium alloys, as well as the ultimate performance of these alloys in complex loading regimes such as dwell fatigue.
Our paper champions the significant increase in spatial resolution afforded using transmission techniques, combined with the ease of SEM-based analysis using conventional electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) systems and forescatter detector (FSD) imaging, to study the nanostructure of real-world engineering alloys.
Titanium alloys are used to make jet engine parts, which operate under demanding service conditions, such as high temperatures combined with cyclic mechanical and thermal loading.
To optimise performance in these demanding environments, it is important to precisely control both grain morphologies and crystallographic orientations, especially for dual phase titanium alloys.
In this paper, we study the Ti‐6Al‐2Sn‐4Zr‐2Mo (Ti‐6242) alloy where the α phase has a hexagonal close‐packed crystal structure, and the β phase has a body‐centred cubic crystal structure.
In these alloys, the spatial distribution, shape and orientations of the α and β phases are related due to the processing history.
We find that the α grains are present in the form of either equiaxed α grains, larger (>200 nm) plate‐shaped grains called basketweave α, or very small (<50 nm) plate‐shaped grains called secondary α.
In this paper, we exploit the new transmission Kikuchi diffraction (TKD) technique to characterise the very fine secondary α in a scanning electron microscope.
Use of TKD is essential for this application, as we can map relatively large areas quickly using automated electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) algorithms within the easy to use scanning electron microscope (SEM).
The TKD technique is exciting to use for this characterisation challenge in that it affords a spatial resolution improvement of one order of magnitude compared to regular EBSD and automated orientation analysis is trivial in comparison to techniques available within the transmission electron microscope (TEM).
Repeat mapping of large areas of the fine scale dual phase microstructure is important, as we want to know which orientation relationships are found in this material and how the microstructure is generated during thermomechanical processing.
In particular, we are concerned with how the α‐phase grains form with respect to the parent β grain, and the size, shape and orientations of each ‘daughter’ α grains.
Using mapping of a large number of daughters within this region, focussing on both the large scale and fine scale α reveals that all 12 daughter grains are formed and that there is a particular habit plane (the intersecting plane between α and β) which is reasonable for all the variants.
This area of variant selection analysis, afforded through automated mapping of crystal orientations at a very fine lengthscale, is critical to inform the next generation of aerospace alloys.
Veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (V-V ECMO) was used for patients with severe COVID-19 pneumonia.
The aim of our study was to assess the long-term outcomes and quality of life of the surviving patients.
This single-center observational study was performed among patients who were discharged after V-V ECMO treatment with COVID-19 pneumonia.
During the 2-year follow-up period, different organ functions and quality of life parameters were evaluated three times after discharge.
As a control group, SARS-CoV-2 infection positive patients were included.
Thirty-five patients underwent V-V ECMO treatment, of whom 11 patients survived.
The study population consists of 9 patients for the follow-up (2 patients did not consent to follow-up examinations).
On lung CT, the occurrence of residual fibrotic banding was 22% at discharge, and increased to 89% at 24th month follow-up, while lung function tests were normal. On echocardiography, patients had a mildly elevated right ventricle end-diastolic diameter at the post discharge period, which normalized during follow-up (baseline: 37.6 ± 2.9 mm, follow-up: 35.6 ± 2.2 mm,  At the 2-year follow-up after discharge from the V-V ECMO treatment, permanent cardio muscular and structural pulmonary damage had been anticipated.
However, on one hand, good cardiac and pulmonary function and robust sustained immune response were measured.
On the other hand, unforeseen long-term complications arose, such as sleepiness, reduced physical activity, acute depression, and consequently, a deteriorated health related quality of life.
These findings highlight the necessity of long-term, structured controlled rehabilitation programs for this patient population.
To apply laser-sintered titanium (Ti) materials to dental prostheses with a three-dimensional structure such as partial dentures, we examined the microstructures and mechanical properties of commercially pure (CP) Ti grade (G) 2 annealed after laser sintering and laser-sintered (as-built) Ti-6Al-4V alloy.
The tensile and fatigue properties of CP Ti G 2 annealed at 700 °C for 2 h after laser sintering were close to those of wrought CP Ti G 2 annealed at the same temperature after hot forging.
The ultimate tensile strengths (σ
The main purpose of this paper was to investigate the effect of a surface plastic deformation layer introduced by multi-pass ultrasonic surface rolling (MUSR) on the mechanical and fatigue properties of HIP Ti-6Al-4V alloys.
Some microscopic analysis methods (SEM, TEM and XRD) were used to characterize the modified microstructure in the material surface layer.
The results indicated that the material surface layer experienced a certain extent plastic deformation, accompanied by some dense dislocations and twin generation.
Moreover, surface microhardness, residual stress and roughness values of samples treated by MUSR were also greatly improved compared with that of untreated samples.
Surface microhardness and compressive residual stress were increased to 435 HV and -1173 MPa, respectively.
The minimum surface roughness was reduced to 0.13 μm. The maximum depth of the surface hardening layer was about 55 μm. However, the practical influence depth was about 450 μm judging from the tensile and fatigue fracture surfaces.
The ultimate tensile strength of the MUSR-treated sample increased to 990 MPa from the initial 963 MPa. The fatigue strength of the MUSR-treated sample was increased by about 25% on the base of 10⁷ cycles, and the lifetime was prolonged from two times to two orders of magnitude at the applied stress amplitudes of 650-560 MPa. The improved mechanical and fatigue properties of MUSR-treated samples should be attributed to the combined effects of the increased microhardness and compressive residual stress, low surface roughness, grain refinement and micro-pore healing in the material surface-modified layer.
This paper reports on the effects of porosity and its distribution on the fatigue strength of bone cement.
Hand-mixed (HM) and vacuum-mixed (VM) bone cement samples were fatigue tested to failure.
The point of failure commonly coincided with large single pores (in the VM materials) and multiple pores in clusters (in the HM material).
The effect of pores was analysed using the Theory of Critical Distances (TCD), a theory previously developed to explain the effect of notches and other stress concentrations on fatigue and fracture.
Clusters of pores were analysed by developing a criterion to decide whether local cracking would act to link pores together, forming a single stress concentration of more complex shape.
This approach enabled us to predict the high-cycle fatigue strength of samples containing clusters of pores, with good accuracy (errors less than 13%).
We then used the analysis to develop general rules for the effect of pore size and proximity on fatigue strength.
For example, we showed that a single pore of 2mm diameter or more would cause a significant decrease in the fatigue strength (compared to that of pore-free material); however, two pores of only 1mm diameter in close proximity would be equally damaging.
This demonstrates the importance not only of pore size but also of pore density and distribution.
However, pores do have beneficial effects such as improved drug dispersion, bone ingrowth and crack tip blunting.
Therefore, given the findings from this study, a possible step forward in the development of surgical bone cements may involve a compromise in which relatively small pores are evenly distributed throughout the material.
Rotary instruments made of a new nickel-titanium (NiTi) alloy (M-Wire) have shown improved cyclic fatigue resistance and mechanical properties compared with those made of conventional superelastic NiTi wires.
The objective of this study was to characterize microstructural changes of M-Wire throughout the cyclic fatigue process under controlled strain amplitude.
The average fatigue life was calculated from 30 M-Wire samples that were subjected to a strain-controlled (≈ 4%) rotating bend fatigue test at room temperature and rotational speed of 300 rpm.
Microstructural evolution of M-Wire has been investigated by different metallurgical characterization techniques, including differential scanning calorimetry, Vickers microhardness, and transmission electron microscopy at 4 different stages (as-received state, 30%, 60%, and 90% of average fatigue life).
During rotating bend fatigue test, no statistically significant difference (P > .05) was found on austenite finish temperatures between as-received M-Wire and fatigued samples.
However, significant differences (P < .05) were observed on Vickers microhardness for samples with 60% and 90% fatigue life compared with as-received and 30% fatigue life.
Coincidentally, substantial growth of martensite grains and martensite twins was observed in microstructure under transmission electron microscopy after 60% fatigue life.
The results of the present study suggested that endodontic instruments manufactured with M-Wire are expected to have higher strength and wear resistance than similar instruments made of conventional superelastic NiTi wires because of its unique nano-crystalline martensitic microstructure.
The results of an extensive test program to characterize the behavior of typical aircraft structures under acoustic loading and to establish their fatigue endurance are presented.
The structures tested were the three flap-like box-type of structures.
Each structure consisted of one flat (bottom) and one curved (top) stiffener stiffened skin panel, front, and rear spars, and ribs that divided the structures into three bays.
The three structures, constructed from three different materials (aircraft standard aluminum alloy, Carbon Fibre Reinforced Plastic, and a Glass Fibre Metal Laminate, i.e., GLARE) had the same size and configuration, with only minor differences due to the use of different materials.
A first set of acoustic tests with excitations of intensity ranging from 140 to 160 dB were carried out to obtain detailed data on the dynamic response of the three structures.
The FE analysis of the structures is also briefly described and the results compared with the experimental data.
The fatigue endurance of the structures was then determined using random acoustic excitation with an overall sound pressure level of 161 dB, and details of crack propagation are reported.
To assess the fatigue and load-to-failure mechanical characteristics of an intramedullary nail with a threaded interference design (TID) in comparison to a commercially available veterinary angle-stable nail with a Morse taper bolt design (I-Loc) of an equivalent size. 10 single interlocking screw/bolt constructs of TID and I-Loc implants were assembled using steel pipe segments and placed through 50,000 cycles of simulated, physiologic axial or torsional loading.
Entry torque, postfatigue extraction torque, and 10th, 25,000th, and 50,000th cycle torsional toggle were assessed.
Each construct was then loaded to failure in the same respective direction as fatigue testing.
Four complete constructs of each design were then assessed using a synthetic bone analog with a 50-mm central defect via nondestructive torsional and axial loading followed by axial load to failure.
All constructs were angle stable at all time points and withstood fatigue loading.
Median insertional torque, extraction torque-to-insertion torque ratio, and torsional yield load were 33%, 33%, and 72.5% lower, respectively, for the TID interlocking screws.
No differences in torsional peak load, torsional stiffness, axial yield load, axial stiffness, or axial peak load were identified.
No differences in complete construct angle stability, torsional stiffness, axial peak load, axial stiffness, or axial yield load were identified.
The TID had an inferior torsional yield load when compared to I-Loc implants but generated angle stability and sustained simulated physiologic fatigue loading.
The TID may be a suitable mechanism for generating angle stability in interlocking nails.
An analysis is presented of the balance between the accumulation and repair of fatigue damage in osteonal bone.
Fatigue damage is defined in terms of cracks seen histologically when precautions are taken to avoid preparation artifact.
The rate of occurrence of such damage is assumed to be proportional to the product of applied peak-to-peak stress, raised to a power, and the loading frequency.
The rate of damage repair is assumed to be proportional to the activation rate for osteonal remodeling, and to the mean cross-sectional area of the resulting osteons.
An additional factor is introduced to account for the possibility that damage provokes nearby remodeling.
The theory is used to compare data from previous experiments of two types: fatigue-to-failure, and studies in which histologically observable cracks are made more numerous by repetitive loading.
The analysis shows that there is a measure of agreement between the results of the two kinds of experiments, but the current data are too limited, and the results are too dependent on the mode of loading, to adequately test the theory.
However, the analysis provides a framework for designing experiments to more efficiently clarify the relationships between fatigue failure, cracks seen in histologic sections, and the rate at which such cracks are repaired by osteonal remodeling.
In combination with known thermomechanical-fatigue data for Mo, we have conducted transient photothermal deflection (TPD) measurements to develop a model for the multipulse laser damage of Mo mirrors to predict their lifetimes.
In laser-damage experiments to verify the model, Mo mirrors were irradiated with 10-ns Nd:YAG laser pulses at 1064 nm at a 10-Hz repetition rate.
Digitized TPD waveforms indicated peak surface angular deflection that could then be converted into surface displacement.
Numerical modeling of the vertical heat distribution enabled the peak surface-deflection signal to be converted into peak surface temperature.
The thermomechanical model was verified by both the experimental and the numerical results.
Conventional mechanical-fatigue data for Mo were used to derive a predictive equation for the laser-accumulation lifetime of Mo mirrors.
Experiments were performed with 1-10(4) pulses per site, yielding laser-damage thresholds and accumulation curves.
The accumulation behavior predicted from measurements of mechanical fatigue was in excellent agreement with the measured behavior.
Thus a single-pulse TPD measurement of peak deformation at a subthreshold laser fluence, in conjunction with mechanical-fatigue data, may be used to estimate the safe operating fluence for a component in a multipulse laser environment.
The crankshaft is one of the core components of a Rotate Vector (RV) reducer.
The fatigue life of the RV reducer is severely hindered by fatigue failure on the eccentric cylindrical surface of the crankshaft.
The hardness gradients and residual stress in the crankshaft, associated with machining operations, exert an enormous impact on the rolling contact fatigue (RCF).
In this work, a finite element method (FEM)-based three-dimensional elasto-plastic contact model is established to calculate the stress-strain field by taking hardness gradients and initial residual stress into account.
The RCF characteristics of an RV reducer crankshaft is investigated by applying modified Fatemi-Socie (FS) multiaxial fatigue criterion.
The results indicate that initial residual stress plays an influential role in the fatigue damage by altering the distribution of the maximum normal stress near the contact surface.
The modified FS fatigue criterion could better consider the effect of initial residual stress and the shear stress, which significantly improves the prediction accuracy of the contact fatigue life model.
The contact fatigue performance could be considerably improved by designing appropriate shot peening parameters to obtain optimized residual stress distribution.
Therefore, the technique presented may serve as an important guideline for the anti-fatigue design of an RV reducer crankshaft.
Pre-clinical endurance validation of innovative hip prostheses femoral components are carried out following the ISO 7206 standard.
The in vitro fatigue test must simulate accurately the physiological load to correctly define the section of the stem.
This study investigates if the loads defined in the ISO 7206 standard simulate correctly the physiological load that occur in vivo.
Simulation of the damage induced by in vitro test and in vivo loads is performed.
Different designs of the stem are examined.
Materials with different fatigue limit are considered.
For the in vivo loads, different body weights are modelled.
The minimal stem dimensions required to stand 20years of patient use and to pass the fatigue test are calculated based on linear damage accumulation.
The results show that the ISO load simulates reasonably well the physiological load that is likely to occur in active patients with a low or normal body weight.
Conversely, the ISO test underestimates the physiological load that heavy and active patients are likely to apply to the implant.
Different minimum requirements for endurance strength should be fixed for hip prostheses designed for patients of different weight.
This solution would reduce the risk of undersizing or oversizing the stem.
The introduction of a classification of the hip prostheses, fixing different minimum requirements for endurance strength, will lead to correctly size stems made of new materials or coated using new surface treatments, reducing the risk of implant failure of innovative prostheses.
Although fatigue damage in bone induced by cyclic loading has been recognized as a problem of clinical significance, few fracture mechanics based studies have investigated how incipient cracks grow by fatigue in this material. In the present study, in vitro cyclic fatigue experiments were performed in order to quantify fatigue-crack growth behavior in human cortical bone.
Crack-growth rates spanning five orders of magnitude were obtained for the extension of macroscopic cracks in the proximal-distal direction; growth-rate data could be well characterized by the linear-elastic stress-intensity range, using a simple (Paris) power law with exponents ranging from 4.4 to 9.5.
Mechanistically, to discern whether such behavior results from "true" cyclic fatigue damage or is simply associated with a succession of quasi-static fracture events, cyclic crack-growth rates were compared to those measured under sustained (non-cyclic) loading.
Measured fatigue-crack growth rates were found to exceed those "predicted" from the sustained load data at low growth rates ( approximately 3 x 10(-10) to 5 x 10(-7) m/cycle), suggesting that a "true" cyclic fatigue mechanism, such as alternating blunting and re-sharpening of the crack tip, is active in bone.
Conversely, at higher growth rates ( approximately 5 x 10(-7) to 3 x 10(-5) m/cycle), the crack-growth data under sustained loads integrated over the loading cycle reasonably predicts the cyclic fatigue data, indicating that quasi-static fracture mechanisms predominate.
The results are discussed in light of the occurrence of fatigue-related stress fractures in cortical bone.
Fracture strength and fatigue parameters of three ceramic materials submitted to dynamic fatigue were evaluated.
A machinable leucite-reinforced dental ceramic, aluminum oxide, and yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ) were tested.
The inert strength of the materials was determined in air (25 degrees C) at stressing rates of 70, 250, 400 MPa/s for Porcelain, Alumina and YSZ respectively.
The data was analyzed using a two-parameter Weibull distribution.
The Weibull modulus (m) and the characteristic of fracture (sigma0) parameters were determined for each material. Specimens were also tested in 3-point bending at different stressing rates in distilled/deionized water at 37 degrees C (dynamic fatigue) in order to calculate the fatigue parameters n and ln B.
The strength for each material was characterized using Strength-Probability-Time (SPT) diagrams for 1 day, 1 year and 10 years.
YSZ showed a high-fracture strength sigma0 (1,459 MPa) at a failure probability of 63.2% and high resistance to subcritical crack growth.
YSZ and alumina showed better resistance to slow crack growth than porcelain, indicating less susceptibility to strength degradation by stress corrosion.
Lifetime predictions after 10 years indicate a reduction of 50%, 36% and 29% in strength for porcelain, alumina and YSZ respectively.
YSZ seems to be a very promising material for long-term dental and biomedical applications.
Additive manufacturing of metallic materials, a layer-wise manufacturing method, is currently gaining attention in the biomedical industry because of its capability to fabricate complex geometries including customized parts fitting to patient requirements.
However, one of the major challenges hindering the full implementation of additively manufactured parts in safety-critical applications is their poor mechanical performance under cyclic loading.
This study investigated both quasi-static bending properties (bending stiffness, bending structural stiffness, and bending strength) and bending fatigue properties of additively manufactured (AM) commercially pure titanium (CPTi) limited contact dynamic compression plate (LC-DCP) constructs based on ASTM International standard for metallic bone plates (ASTM F382).
In addition, the effect of post surface treatment methods including single shot-peened (SP), dual shot-peened (DP), and chemically assisted surface enhancement (CASE) on bending fatigue performance was also evaluated.
Results indicated that bending stiffness and bending structural stiffness of AM CPTi LC-DCPs are comparable to conventionally manufactured (CM) counterparts; however, the bending strength of AM CPTi LC-DCPs is lower than CM counterparts.
While the fatigue strength of as-built AM CPTi LC-DCPs is lower compared to the CM counterparts, AM CPTi LC-DCPs after post surface treatments (SP, DP, and CASE) exhibit statistically comparable fatigue strength to the CM CPTi LC-DCPs.
In this study, metal inert gas welding (MIG) was applied to 4 mm thick 6005A-T6 aluminum alloy welding.
Compared with other parts, the hardness of the weld zone (WZ) was the lowest, about 67 HV.
There was the Softening in WZ, which might make WZ the weakest zone.
Then, fatigue tests were carried out on MIG welded joints.
All the fatigue specimens fractured at the weld toe of the lap joint, and the fracture was characterized by a cleavage fracture.
Crack closure induced by oxide was observed during the steady propagation of the fatigue crack.
Impurities hindered crack propagation, changed the direction of crack propagation, and appeared in stepped fatigue strip distribution morphology; in the process of the main crack propagation, the initiation and propagation of small cracks were easily restricted and hindered by the main crack, which slowed down the propagation rate and even stopped the propagation directly.
Aiming at the problems of serious pavement temperature diseases, low efficiency and high loss of ice-breaking methods, high occupancy rate of waste tires and the low utilization rate and insufficient durability of rubber particles, this paper aims to improve the service level of roads and ensure the safety of winter pavements.
A pavement material with high efficiency, low carbon and environmental friendliness for active snow melting and ice breaking is developed.
Firstly, NaOH, NaClO and KH550 were used to optimize the treatment of rubber particles.
The hydrophilic properties, surface morphology and phase composition of rubber particles before and after optimization were studied, and the optimal treatment method of rubber particles was determined.
Then, the optimized rubber particles were used to replace the natural aggregate in the polyurethane gel mixture by the volume substitution method, and the optimum polyurethane gel dosages and molding and curing processes were determined.
Finally, the influence law of the road performance of RPGM was compared and analyzed by means of an indoor test, and the ice-breaking effect of RPGM was explored.
The results showed that the contact angles of rubber particles treated with three solutions were reduced by 22.5%, 30.2% and 36.7%, respectively.
The surface energy was improved, the element types on the surface of rubber particles were reduced and the surface impurities were effectively removed.
Among them, the improvement effect of the KH550 solution was the most significant.
With the increase in rubber particle content from 0% to 15%, the dynamic stability of the mixture gradually increases, with a maximum increase of 23.5%.
The maximum bending strain increases with the increase in its content.
The residual stability increases first and then decreases with the increase in rubber particle content, and the increase ranges are 1.4%, 3.3% and 0.5%, respectively.
The anti-scattering performance increases with the increase in rubber content, and an excessive amount will lead to an increase in the scattering loss rate, but it can still be maintained below 5%.
The fatigue life of polyurethane gel mixtures with 0%, 5%, 10% and 15% rubber particles is 2.9 times, 3.8 times, 4.3 times and 4.0 times higher than that of the AC-13 asphalt mixture, respectively, showing excellent anti-fatigue performance.
The friction coefficient of the mixture increases with an increase in the rubber particle content, which can be increased by 22.3% compared with the ordinary asphalt mixture.
RPGM shows better de-icing performance than traditional asphalt mixtures, and with an increase in rubber particle content, the ice-breaking ability is effectively improved.
When the thickness of the ice layer exceeds 9 mm, the ice-breaking ability of the mixture is significantly weakened.
Mainly through the synergistic effect of stress coupling, thermal effect and interface failure, the bonding performance of the ice-pavement interface is weakened under the action of driving load cycle, and the ice layer is loosened, broken and peeled off, achieving efficient de-icing.
While acoustic emission (AE) testing can be used as a valuable technique in structural health monitoring and non-destructive testing, little research has been conducted to establish its sources, particularly in 2024-T3 aluminium alloys.
The major contribution of this work is that it provides a method to obtain a better linear relationship of count rate with crack growth rate based on waveform.
This paper aims to characterise AE sources by synchronising the AE waveforms with load levels and then to propose possible dominant frequency ranges.
The AE waveforms during fatigue crack growth in edge-notched 2024-T3 aluminium specimens, from an initial crack length of 10 mm to 70 mm, were collected at two different load ratios
In this study, equal-channel angular pressing (ECAP) of austenitic 316L and Cr-Ni-Ti stainless steels was carried out.
Effect of ECAP at 400°C on the evolution of the microstructure, mechanical properties, and biocompatibility of these steels was investigated.
The biocompatibility of samples with the ultrafine grain structure obtained in the ECAP process did not deteriorate in comparison with an austenitic 316L stainless steel in coarse-grained state.
However, this treatment enhances the multipotent mesenchymal stromal/stem cell proliferation by 26% for 316L steel and by 17% for Cr-Ni-Ti stainless steel in comparison with coarse-grained counterparts.
At the same time, ECAP contributes to a significant improvement in performance and weight reduction of medical devices, which is especially important for the creation of implanted prostheses for replacement of skeletal defects, due to significant increase in specific strength of steels.
The strength properties of austenitic stainless steels were remarkably improved due to the grain refinement and deformation twinning resulted from ECAP at 400°C.
After ECAP, the yield strength of 316L and Cr-Ni-Ti stainless steels increased by 4.2 and 2.9 times up to 950 and 900 MPa, and the fatigue limit by 2 and 1.7 times up to 500 and 475 MPa, respectively, comparing to coarse-grained counterparts.
The application potential of additive manufacturing nickel-based superalloys in aeroengines and gas turbines is extensive, and evaluating their mechanical properties is crucial for promoting the engineering application in load-bearing components.
In this study, Hastelloy X alloy was prepared using the laser powder bed fusion process combined with solution heat treatment.
The tensile and high cycle fatigue properties were experimentally investigated at room temperature as well as two typical elevated temperatures, 650 °C and 815 °C.
It was found that, during elevated-temperature tensile deformation, the alloy exhibits significant serrated flow behavior, primarily observed during the initial stage of plastic deformation at 650 °C but occurring throughout the entire plastic deformation process at 815 °C.
Notably, when deformation is small, sawtooth fluctuations are significantly higher at 815 °C compared to 650 °C.
Irregular subsurface lack of fusion defects serve as primary sources for fatigue crack initiation in this alloy including both single-source and multi-source initiation mechanisms; moreover, oxidation on fracture surfaces is more prone to occur at elevated temperatures, particularly at 815 °C.
High tibial osteotomy (HTO) with a medially opening wedge has been used to treat osteoarthritic knees.
However, the osteotomized tibia becomes a highly unstable structure and necessitates the use of plate and screws to stabilize the medial opening and enhance bone healing.
A T-shaped plate (e.g. TomoFix) with locking screws has been extensively used as a stabilizer of the HTO wedge.
From the biomechanical viewpoint, however, the different plate sites and support bases of the HTO plate should affect the load-transferring path and wedge-stabilizing ability of the HTO construct.
This study uses biomechanical tests and finite-element analyses to evaluate the placement- and base-induced effects of the HTO plates on construct performance.
Test-grade synthetic tibiae are chosen as the standard specimens of the static tests.
A medial wedge is created for each specimen and stabilized by three plate variations: hybrid use of T- and I-shaped plates (TIP), anteriorly placed TomoFix (APT), and medially placed TomoFix (MPT).
There are five tests for each variation.
The failure loads of the three constructs are measured and used as the load references of the fatigue finite-element analysis.
The residual life after two hundred thousand cycles is predicted for all variations.
The testing results show no occurrence of implant back-out and breakage under all variations.
However, the wedge fracture consistently occurs at the opening tip for the APT and MPT and the medially resected plateau for the TIP, respectively.
The testing results reveal that both failure load and wedge stiffness of the TIP are the highest, followed by the MPT, while those of the APT are the least (P < 0.05).
The fatigue analyses predict comparable values of residual life for the TIP and MPT and the highest value of damage accumulation for the APT.
Both experimental and numerical tests show the biomechanical disadvantage of the APT than their counterparts.
However, the TIP construct without locking screws shows the highest stress at the plate-screw interfaces.
This study demonstrates the significant effect of placement site and support base on the construct behaviors.
The TIP provides a wider base for supporting the HTO wedge even without the use of locking screws, thus significantly enhancing construct stiffness and suppressing wedge fracture.
Compared to the APT, the MPT shows performance more comparable to that of the TIP.
If a single plate and a smaller incision are considered, the MPT is recommended as the better alternative for stabilizing the medial HTO wedge.
The effects of preexercise photobiomodulation therapy (PBMT) to enhance performance, accelerate recovery, and attenuate exercise-induced oxidative stress were still not fully investigated, especially in high-level athletes.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of PBMT (using infrared low-level laser therapy) applied before a progressive running test on functional aspects, muscle damage, and inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in high-level soccer players.
A randomized, triple-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial was performed.
Twenty-two high-level male soccer players from the same team were recruited and treated with active PBMT and placebo.
The order of interventions was randomized.
Immediately after the application of active PBMT or placebo, the volunteers performed a standardized high-intensity progressive running test (ergospirometry test) until exhaustion.
We analyzed rates of oxygen uptake (VO
Previous studies have shown that the application of a porous Ti-6A1-4V alloy coating results in a substantial decrease in the substrate material fatigue properties.
This phenomenon is due to both a microstructural change from the equiaxed alpha-beta microstructure to a lamellar structure and a notch effect created by the porous coating.
The lamellar microstructure has been shown to exhibit the worst fatigue properties of the most common structures obtained in Ti-6A1-4V alloy.
This study examined various post-sintering heat treatments which would alter the material microstructure and possibly result in improved fatigue performance.
The heat treatments examined produced alternate microstructures to the lamellar structure and some approached the totally transformed acicular alpha structure.
The acicular alpha structure has been shown to exhibit the best fatigue properties for Ti-6A1-4V alloy in the notched condition.
High-enthalpy hybrid water/argon-stabilized plasma (WSP-H) torch may be used for efficient deposition of coatings from dry powders, suspensions, and solutions.
WSP-H torch was used to deposit two complete thermal barrier coatings (TBCs) with multilayered top-coat. NiCrAlY was used as bond
Multiple reports of convexo-concave valve outlet strut fractures have focused on the welds, often implicating putative defects of uncertain character and significance.
This study differs from all others in that it systematically assesses a large number (n = 60) of intact and fractured valves and clearly differentiates findings on the critical, tensile-stressed, inflow side of the outlet strut leg from those on the outflow side, which are subject only to compression.
Each valve was examined by scanning electron microscopy and subjected to multiple metallographic sectioning of each strut-flange interface.
All fractures and selected intact valves were further analyzed with X-ray dispersive spectroscopy.
Fatigue striations were seen in all fractured valves, and their orientation indicated that every fracture initiated in an area on the inflow side, spreading out progressively towards the outflow side.
Data indicated that 22% of the first-to-fail leg separations and 17% of all fractures initiated outside of the weld.
Element segregation areas were seen in 40% of welds, significantly more commonly in intact valves, invariably located on the outflow side, and typically (85%) apart from the fracture path.
Microporosity was identified in 15% of welds, usually near the outflow side, and in the same proportion of intact and fractured valves.
One fracture surface had a 38 microns, inflow-side void that might have been a factor in crack initiation in this valve, which was highly stressed.
With this singular exception, no metallurgical feature of any weld was found that appeared to have contributed, even in a minor way, to the process of outlet fracture.
Mechanical fatigue of bone cement leading to damage accumulation is implicated in the loosening of cemented hip components.
Even though cracks have been identified in autopsy-retrieved mantles, damage accumulation by continuous growth and increase in number of microcracks has not yet been demonstrated experimentally.
To determine just how damage accumulation occurs in the cement layer of a hip replacement, a physical model of the joint was used in an experimental study.
The model regenerates the stress pattern found in the cement layers whilst at the same time allowing visualisation of microcrack initiation and growth.
In this way the gradual process of damage accumulation can be determined.
Six specimens were tested to 5 million cycles and a total of 1373 cracks were observed.
It was found that, under the flexural loading allowed by the model, the majority of cracks come from pores in the bulk cement and not from the interfaces.
Furthermore, the lateral and medial sides have statistically different damage accumulation behaviours, and pre-load cracks significantly accelerate the damage accumulation process.
The experimental results confirm that damage accumulation commences early on in the loading history and that it is continuously increasing with load in the form of crack initiation and crack propagation.
The results highlight the importance of replicating the loading and restraint conditions of clinical cement mantles when endeavouring to accurately model the damage accumulation process.
In real engineering applications, machine parts are rarely completely homogeneous; in most cases, there are at least some minor notch effects or even more extensive inhomogeneities, which cause critical local stress concentrations from which fatigue fractures develop.
In the present research, a shift of the Coffin-Manson
The article reviews the progress made on bronze alloys processed through various casting techniques, and focuses on enhancements in the microstructural characteristics, hardness, tensile properties, and tribological behaviour of Cu-Sn and Cu-Sn-Ti alloys.
Copper and its alloys have found several applications in the fields of automobiles, marine and machine tools specifically for propellers in submarines, bearings, and bushings.
It has also been reported that bronze alloys are especially used as an anti-wear and friction-reducing material to make high performance bearings for roller cone cock bits and warships for defence purposes.
In these applications, properties like tensile strength, yield strength, fatigue strength, elongation, hardness, impact strength, wear resistance, and corrosion resistance are very important; however, these bronze alloys possess only moderate hardness, which results in low wear resistance, thereby limiting the application of these alloys in the automobile industry.
The major factor that influences the properties of bronze alloys is the microstructure.
Morphological changes in these bronze alloys are achieved through different manufacturing techniques, such as casting, heat treatment, and alloy addition, which enhance the mechanical, tribological, and corrosion characteristics.
Alloying of Ti to cast Cu-Sn is very effective in changing the microstructure of bronze alloys.
Reinforcing the bronze matrix with several ceramic particles and surface modifications also improves the properties of bronze alloys.
The present article reviews the techniques involved in changing the microstructure and enhancing the mechanical and tribological behaviours of cast Cu-Sn and Cu-Sn-Ti alloys.
Moreover, this article also reviews the industrial applications and future scope of these cast alloys in the automobile and marine industries.
As the central component in friction stir welding, the design and manufacture of welding tools for aluminum alloys have garnered substantial attention.
However, the understanding of tool reliability during the welding process, especially in terms of fatigue performance, remains unclear.
This paper focuses on the welding of AA2219-T4 as a case study to elucidate the predominant failure mode of the tool during the friction stir welding (FSW) of aluminum alloys.
Experimental methods, including FSW welding and fracture morphology analysis of the failed tool, coupled with numerical simulation, confirm that high-cycle mechanical fatigue fracture is the primary mode of the tool failure.
Failures predominantly occur at the tool pin's root and the shoulder end face with scroll concave grooves.
The experimental and simulation results exhibit a noteworthy agreement, validating the reliability of the simulation model.
The FSW Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian (ALE) model developed in this study analyzes stress distribution and variation under the thermo-mechanical coupling effect of the tool.
It reveals that stress concentration resulting from structural changes in the tool is the primary driver of fatigue crack initiation.
This is attributed to exposure to alternating cyclic stresses such as bending, tension, and torsion at the tool pin's root, manifesting as multiaxial composite mechanical fatigue.
Among these stresses, bending alternating cyclic stress exerts the most significant influence.
The paper employs the Tool Life module in DEFORM software to predict the fatigue life of the tool.
Results indicate that reducing welding speed or increasing rotation speed can enhance the tool's fatigue life to some extent.
The methodology proposed in this paper serves as a valuable reference for optimizing FSW structures or processes to enhance the fatigue performance of welding tools.
Accumulation of fatigue microdamage in cortical bone specimens is commonly measured by a modulus or stiffness degradation after normalizing tissue heterogeneity by the initial modulus or stiffness of each specimen measured during a preloading step.
In the first experiment, the initial specimen modulus defined using linear elastic beam theory (LEBT) was shown to be nonlinearly dependent on the preload level, which subsequently caused systematic error in the amount and rate of damage accumulation measured by the LEBT modulus degradation.
Therefore, the secant modulus is recommended for measurements of the initial specimen modulus during preloading.
In the second experiment, different measures of mechanical degradation were directly compared and shown to result in widely varying estimates of damage accumulation during fatigue.
After loading to 400,000 cycles, the normalized LEBT modulus decreased by 26% and the creep strain ratio decreased by 58%, but the normalized secant modulus experienced no degradation and histology revealed no significant differences in microcrack density.
The LEBT modulus was shown to include the combined effect of both elastic (recovered) and creep (accumulated) strain.
Therefore, at minimum, both the secant modulus and creep should be measured throughout a test to most accurately indicate damage accumulation and account for different damage mechanisms.
Histology revealed indentation of tissue adjacent to roller supports, with significant sub-surface damage beneath large indentations, accounting for 22% of the creep strain on average.
The indentation of roller supports resulted in inflated measures of the LEBT modulus degradation and creep.
The results of this study suggest that investigations of fatigue microdamage in cortical bone should avoid the use of four-point bending unless no other option is possible.
Prediction of crack growth and fatigue life estimation of metals using linear/nonlinear acousto-ultrasound methods is an ongoing issue.
It is known that by measuring nonlinear parameters, the relative accumulated fatigue damage can be evaluated.
However, there is still a need to measure two crack propagation states to assess the absolute residual fatigue life.
A procedure based on the measurement of a third-order acoustic nonlinear parameter is presented to assess the residual fatigue life of a metallic component without the need of a baseline.
The analytical evaluation of how the cubic nonlinear-parameter evolves during crack propagation is presented by combining the Paris law to the Nazarov-Sutin crack equation.
Unlike other developed models, the proposed model assumes a crack surface topology with variable geometrical parameters.
Measurements of the cubic nonlinearity parameter on AA2024-T351 specimens demonstrated high sensitivity to crack propagation and excellent agreement with the predicted theoretical behavior.
The advantages of using the cubic nonlinearity parameter for fatigue cracks on metals are discussed by comparing the relevant results of a quadratic nonlinear parameter.
Then the methodology to estimate crack size and residual fatigue life without the need of a baseline is presented, and advantages and limitations are discussed.
Understanding and predicting the behaviour of fatigue cracks are essential for ensuring safety, optimising maintenance strategies, and extending the lifespan of critical components in industries such as aerospace, automotive, civil engineering and energy.
Traditional methods using vibration-based dynamic responses have provided effective tools for crack detection but often fail to predict crack propagation paths accurately.
This study focuses on identifying crack propagation paths in an aluminium alloy 2024-T42 cantilever beam using dynamic response through numerical simulations and artificial neural networks (ANNs).
A unified damping ratio of the specimens was measured using an ICP
Occupants of water-damaged buildings (WDBs) with evidence of microbial amplification often describe a syndrome involving multiple organ systems, commonly referred to as "sick building syndrome" (SBS), following chronic exposure to the indoor air.
Studies have demonstrated that the indoor air of WDBs often contains a complex mixture of fungi, mycotoxins, bacteria, endotoxins, antigens, lipopolysaccharides, and biologically produced volatile compounds.
A case-series study with medical assessments at five time points was conducted to characterize the syndrome after a double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial conducted among a group of study participants investigated the efficacy of cholestyramine (CSM) therapy.
The general hypothesis of the time series study was that chronic exposure to the indoor air of WDBs is associated with SBS.
Consecutive clinical patients were screened for diagnosis of SBS using criteria of exposure potential, symptoms involving at least five organ systems, and the absence of confounding factors.
Twenty-eight cases signed voluntary consent forms for participation in the time-series study and provided samples of microbial contaminants from water-damaged areas in the buildings they occupied.
Twenty-six participants with a group-mean duration of illness of 11 months completed examinations at all five study time points.
Thirteen of those participants also agreed to complete a double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Data from Time Point 1 indicated a group-mean of 23 out of 37 symptoms evaluated; and visual contrast sensitivity (VCS), an indicator of neurological function, was abnormally low in all participants.
Measurements of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9), leptin, alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), immunoglobulin E (IgE), and pulmonary function were abnormal in 22, 13, 25, 14, 1, and 7 participants, respectively.
Following 2 weeks of CSM therapy to enhance toxin elimination rates, measurements at Time Point 2 indicated group-means of 4 symptoms with 65% improvement in VCS at mid-spatial frequency-both statistically significant improvements relative to Time Point 1.
Moderate improvements were seen in MMP9, leptin, and VEGF serum levels.
The improvements in health status were maintained at Time Point 3 following a 2-week period during which CSM therapy was suspended and the participants avoid re-exposure to the WDBs.
Participants reoccupied the respective WDBs for 3 days without CSM therapy, and all participants reported relapse at Time Point 4.
The group-mean number of symptoms increased from 4 at Time Point 2 to 15 and VCS at mid-spatial frequency declined by 42%, both statistically significant differences relative to Time Point 2.
Statistically significant differences in the group-mean levels of MMP9 and leptin relative to Time Point 2 were also observed.
CSM therapy was reinstated for 2 weeks prior to assessments at Time Point 5.
Measurements at Time Point 5 indicated group-means of 3 symptoms and a 69% increase in VCS, both results statistically different from those at Time Points 1 and 4.
Optically corrected Snellen Distance Equivalent visual acuity scores did not vary significantly over the course of the study.
Group-mean levels of MMP9 and leptin showed statistically significant improvement at Time Point 5 relative to Time Points 1 and 4, and the proportion of participants with abnormal VEGF levels was significantly lower at Time Point 5 than at Time Point 1.
The number of participants at Time Point 5 with abnormal levels of MMP9, leptin, VEGF, and pulmonary function were 10, 10, 9, and 7, respectively.
The level of IgE was not re-measured because of the low incidence of abnormality at Time Point 1, and MSH was not re-measured because previously published data indicated a long time course for MSH improvement.
The results from the time series study supported the general study hypothesis that exposure to the indoor air of WDBs is associated with SBS.
High levels of MMP9 indicated that exposure to the complex mixture of substances in the indoor air of the WDBs triggered a pro-inflammatory cytokine response.
A model describing modes of action along a pathway leading to biotoxin-associated illness is presented to organize current knowledge into testable hypotheses.
The model links an inflammatory response with tissue hypoxia, as indicated by abnormal levels of VEGF, and disruption of the proopiomelanocortin pathway in the hypothalamus, as evidenced by abnormalities in leptin and MSH levels.
Results from the clinical trial on CSM efficacy indicated highly significant improvement in group-mean number of symptoms and VCS scores relative to baseline in the 7 participants randomly assigned to receive 2 weeks of CSM therapy, but no improvement in the 6 participants assigned placebo therapy during that time interval. However, those 6 participants also showed a highly significant improvement in group-mean number of symptoms and VCS scores relative to baseline following a subsequent 2-week period of CSM therapy.
Because the only known benefit of CSM therapy is to enhance the elimination rates of substances that accumulate in bile by preventing re-absorption during enterohepatic re-circulation, results from the clinical trial also supported the general study hypothesis that SBS is associated with exposure to WDBs because the only relevant function of CSM is to bind and remove toxigenic compounds.
Only research that focuses on the signs, symptoms, and biochemical markers of patients with persistent illness following acute and/or chronic exposure to WDBs can further the development of the model describing modes of action in the biotoxin-associated pathway and guide the development of innovative and efficacious therapeutic interventions.
To analyse the development of damage during fatigue cycling of human bone.
Changes in compliance and the cycles to failure were monitored in cortical bone samples subjected to oscillating stress in vitro.
Previous studies produced mainly the relationship between the applied stress and the final cycles to failure (sigma-N(f)plots).
However, cyclic stressing increases the compliance of the bone continuously, and causes a progressive mechanical/structural degradation.
Recording this accumulation of damage allows one to know how close bone is to the point of failure; more importantly, it allows a more comprehensive modelling of fatigue processes in cortical bone.
The occurrence of material damage was continuously monitored during the tests.
The 20 specimens came from two female subjects, 27 and 56 years old.
The range of the cyclic stresses was 58-130 MPa. The damage was quantified with a graphical and an empirical/numerical method, and we have also microscopically observed the generation of internal microcracks.
The range of cycles to failure was from 1 to 210,000.
It was observed that (i) the older tissue showed a lower fatigue strength than the younger one, (ii) both tissues sustained similar damage levels prior to failure, and (iii) they both showed a continuous accumulation of damage during the tests, the course of which depended on the level of stress.
Robotic hammer peening (RHP) is a cold-working technique to improve the fatigue life of metallic structures by inducing compressive residual stress in the near-surface region.
Measuring the depth profiling of residual stress distribution plays an important role in process design towards the advanced manufacturing of metallic structures.
This study investigates the use of the nonlinear ultrasonic method to measure the residual stress profiles through the frequency-dependent penetration depth approach.
Stainless steel specimens were treated with varying RHP intensities, and their morphological evolutions were characterized with a step-profilometer.
The amplitudes of the second and third harmonic components of the longitudinal critically refracted (LCR) and Rayleigh waves were measured and analyzed.
The effect of the surface roughness on the acoustic nonlinearity parameters before and after polishing at various peening intensities was briefly discussed.
The results show a large variation in the acoustic nonlinearity parameter at the surface layer, indicating the potential of the proposed nonlinear ultrasonics for the measurement of depth profiling of residual stress.
Dental rotary instruments can be applied in multiple conditions of canals, but unpredictable fatigue fracture may happen.
This study evaluated the fatigue lives of two batches of nickel-titanium (NiTi) dental rotary files operating in clinically simulated root canals.
Single-step cyclic fatigue tests were carried out to assess the performance of two batches of NiTi files (ProTaper and ProFile) in nine combinations of simulated canals (cylinder radii 5 mm, 7.5 mm, and 10 mm, and insertion angles 20°, 40°, and 60°).
Two-step cyclic fatigue tests were carried out in simulated root canals with the same radius by using the following two sets of insertion angles: (20°, 40°), (20°, 60°), (40°, 20°), and (60°, 20°).
Fracture surfaces were observed by scanning electron microscopy.
The single-step cyclic fatigue results showed that cyclic fatigue lives of the files decreased with increasing insertion angles or decreasing cylinder radius.
The ProFile #25 .04 file was more fatigue resistant than the ProTaper F2 file.
In two-step cyclic fatigue tests, the total fatigue lives were usually more than 100% when the files operated at a lower strain and then at a higher strain.
By scanning electron microscopy, a larger area of fatigue striation corresponded to a longer fatigue life.
Cyclic fatigue life can be influenced by the strains and geometries of files.
The fatigue life was prolonged when the files operated at a lower strain and then at a higher strain.
However, the fatigue life was shortened if the loading sequence was reversed.
To evaluate the surface and microstructural alterations of new and used HyFlex EDM prototypes and to test their fatigue resistance.
Fifteen HyFlex EDM prototypes were used for in vitro instrumentation of severely curved root canals.
Surface and microstructural characteristics of new and used files were compared by ESEM analysis equipped with energy dispersive X-ray spectrophotometry (EDS) and optical metallographic imaging.
Thirty additional HyFlex EDM prototypes and 20 standard manufactured HyFlex CM files were subjected to cyclic fatigue tests.
Time to fracture was recorded, and results were validated using the Kruskal-Wallis test (α-level 0.05).
Fatigued files were analysed by ESEM for fractographic evaluation.
Surface and microstructural characterization of EDM prototypes revealed the typical spark-machined surface of a NiTi EDM alloy.
No fractures were registered during root canal instrumentation.
No evident surface alterations and minor degradation were observed between new and used instruments.
The metallographic analysis of new and used files disclosed a homogeneous structure, mostly composed of lenticular martensite grains, and some residual austenite.
The cyclic fatigue test showed an increase of fatigue resistance up to 700% on the EDM compared to CM files.
Spark-machined peculiar surface is the main feature of HyFlex EDM.
Low degradation was observed after multiple canal instrumentations.
Prototypes exhibited surprising high values of cyclic fatigue resistance and a safe in vitro use in severely curved canals.
Ligaments are dense fibrous tissues that connect bones across a joint and are exposed daily to creep and fatigue loading.
Ligaments are tensile load-bearing tissues; therefore, fatigue loading will have a component of time-dependent damage from the non-zero mean stress and cycle-dependent damage from the oscillating stress.
If time-dependent damage is not sufficient to completely predict the fatigue response, then cycle-dependent damage could be an important contributor.
Using data from normal ligaments (current study and Thornton et al., Clin.
Biomech. 22:932-940, 2007a) and healing ligaments (Thornton and Bailey, J.
Eng. 135:091004-1-091004-6, 2013), creep data was used to predict the fatigue response considering time-dependent damage.
Relationships between creep lifetime and test stress or initial strain were modelled using exponential or power-law regression.
In order to predict fatigue lifetimes, constant rates of damage were assumed and time-varying stresses were introduced into the expressions for time-dependent damage from creep.
Then, the predictions of fatigue lifetime were compared with curvefits to the fatigue data where exponential or power-law regressions were used to determine the relationship between fatigue lifetime and test stress or initial strain.
The fatigue prediction based on time-dependent damage alone greatly overestimated fatigue lifetime suggesting that time-dependent damage alone cannot account for all of the damage accumulated during fatigue and that cycle-dependent damage has an important role.
At lower stress and strain, time-dependent damage was a greater relative contributor for normal ligaments than healing ligaments; however, cycle-dependent damage was a greater relative contributor with incremental increases in stress or strain for normal ligaments than healing ligaments.
The Ti-6242 titanium alloy samples were forged at 1020 °C (slightly above the β-transus) and subjected to ultra-short isothermal holding (0-320 s) prior to quenching to investigate the rapid microstructural evolution in the parent β phase.
Electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) with parent β-phase reconstruction reveals that within only 1-3 s of holding, a pronounced <111> fiber texture develops along the forging axis, superseding the original <100> deformation fiber.
This ultrafast texture change is attributed to metadynamic recrystallization (MDRX)-the post-deformation growth of nuclei formed during dynamic deformation.
The newly formed <111>-oriented β grains still contain residual substructure, indicating incomplete strain release consistent with MDRX.
Longer holds (tens of seconds) lead to more extensive static recrystallization and normal grain growth, which dilute the strong <111> fiber as grains of other orientations form and coarsen.
These findings demonstrate that even a brief pause after forging can markedly alter the prior β texture via a MDRX mechanism.
This insight highlights a novel approach to microtexture control in Ti-6242: by leveraging MDRX during short holds, one can potentially disrupt the formation of aligned α colony microtextured regions (MTRs, or "macrozones") upon subsequent cooling, thereby mitigating dwell-fatigue susceptibility.
The study revises the interpretation of the recrystallization mechanism in short-term holds and provides guidance for optimizing β-phase processing to improve fatigue performance.
The materials with grain size gradient variation on the surface, which were prepared with mechanical-induced severe plastic deformation, always show high resistance to high and low cycle fatigue and frictional wear because of their good strength-ductility synergy.
The ultrasonic surface rolling treatment (USRT) has the advantages of high processing efficiency, good surface quality, and large residual compressive stress introduced to the surface after treatment.
The USRT was used to prepare aluminum alloy (AA7075) samples with a surface gradient structure; meanwhile, the microstructural evolution mechanism of the deformation layers on the gradient structure was studied with XRD, SEM, and TEM.
The microstructure with gradient distribution of grain size and dislocation density formed on the surface of AA7075 aluminum alloy after USRT.
The surface layer consists of nanocrystals with random orientation distribution, and high-density dislocation cells and subgrains formed in some grains in the subsurface layer, while the center of the material is an undeformed coarse-grained matrix.
The results show that the dislocation slip dominates the grain refinement process, following the continuous cutting and refinement of dislocation cells, subgrains, and fragmentation of the second precipitates.
This study systematically clarified the mechanism of grain refinement and nanocrystallization on the surface of high-strength aluminum alloys and laid a theoretical foundation for further research on mechanical behavior and surface friction and wear properties of high-strength non-ferrous materials with gradient structure.
Aluminum-lithium (Al-Li) alloys are extensively employed in aerospace and space structures because of their low density, high specific stiffness, and excellent fatigue resistance.
However, welding of these alloys remains challenging, since the joints typically exhibit unique microstructural features, including equiaxed grain zones (EQZ) along the fusion boundary and coarse columnar grains in the fusion zone, which degrade mechanical performance and increase susceptibility to cracking.
This review provides an overview of the generational evolution of Al-Li alloys and their associated weldability, highlights the advantages and limitations of major welding processes, such as laser, arc, and hybrid techniques, and systematically examines the formation mechanisms of EQZ, columnar grains, and equiaxed grain bands.
Various strategies for microstructural control are compared, including filler design, pulsed current, and external-field-assisted welding.
Special attention is given to grain refinement achieved through heterogeneous nucleation, dendrite fragmentation, and columnar-to-equiaxed transition.
Finally, prospects for advanced microstructural control strategies are discussed, with the goal of achieving high-quality welds for next-generation lightweight structural applications.
Many surface treatments that are used in cementless and endosseous implants modify the topography and the roughness to increase the implant-bone contact area and thus favor bio-mechanical anchorage, shortening the period of osseointegration.
Nevertheless, the effects that the surface treatments can have on the fatigue life of the material are not generally considered.
In this sense, the superficial condition of the component is one of the features that affect the fatigue strength, specially the fatigue crack nucleation.
The fatigue behaviour of annealed commercially pure titanium grade 4 was studied.
The surface treatments used were acid etching, shot blasting and a dual treatment of blasting + acid etching.
An as-machined surface condition was used as a reference.
Topography, roughness, surface defects, microstructural changes and residual stresses were characterized in each case.
Rotating-bending fatigue tests of each surface condition were conducted at room temperature with a frequency of 33 Hz.
S-N curves and Basquin equations were obtained based on the results of these tests.
Tested samples were also characterized to evaluate fatigue damage.
The acid etching decreases the fatigue endurance, while the blasting and blasting + acid etching treatments showed a similar behaviour with respect to the reference condition.
For acid etching, the modifications introduced (stress raisers) contributed to accelerate the nucleation of cracks.
On the other hand, the treatments with a blasting stage besides generating stress raisers, introduced compressive residual stresses and superficial plastic deformation that tend to improve the fatigue endurance of the material.
The Mode I, Mode II, and mixed-mode interlaminar failure behavior of a thin-ply (54 gsm) carbon fiber-epoxy laminated composite reinforced by 20 μm tall
Low Young's modulus titanium alloys, such as Ti-30Nb-5Ta-3Zr (TNTZ) of this study, were promising biocompatible implant materials.
In this work, TNTZ samples with relative density of 96.8%-99.2% were additively manufactured by powder-bed based Selective Laser Melting (SLM) through tuning processing parameters, i.e. varying the point distance between 50 and 75 μm, laser exposure time between 135 and 200 μs, and a fixed laser power of 200 W.
The microstructure, elastic properties, fatigue properties and machining accuracy of the fabricated samples have been investigated.
Lattice structure TNTZ samples with porosity of 77.23% were also fabricated to further reduce the Young's modulus of the TNTZ.
According to the Relative Growth Rate (RGR) value, the as-printed TNTZ samples exhibited no cell cytotoxicity, where they showed even better biocompatibility than the comparative, as-printed Ti-6Al-4V samples.
The as-printed TNTZ developed by the study demonstrates good biocompatibility, low stress shielding tendency and high mechanical properties.
OBJECTIVE: To develop a methodology to characterize the pattern of crack initiation and damage accumulation in intramedullary fixated cemented prostheses.
DESIGN: An experimental physical model of intramedullary fixation was developed which both represents the implant structure and permits monitoring of fatigue crack growth.
BACKGROUND: Many joint replacement prostheses are fixed into the medullary cavity of bones using a poly(methylmethacrylate) 'bone cement', which forms a mantle around the prosthesis and locks it to the bone.
The endurance of the replacement is, to a great extent, determined by the mechanical durability of the cement and the implant interfaces under cyclic stresses generated by dynamic loading.
The cement mantle is subjected to complex multiaxial stresses which vary in particular distribution depending on the prosthesis design.
METHODS: Damage accumulation is reported in terms of the number of cracks, the location of cracks, and the rate of crack growth.
RESULTS: The results clearly show the nature of damage accumulation in the cement mantle, and that many of the cracks which propagate within the cement mantle are related to cement porosity.
CONCLUSION: This study gives experimental evidence to support the hypothesis of a damage accumulation failure scenario in cemented hip reconstructions.
RELEVANCE: Cementing is the most popular technique for the fixation of joint replacement prosthesis.
However, the sequence of events leading to the failure of cemented fixation is not fully understood.
In this paper it is shown that damage accumulation can be directly monitored in an experimental model of cemented intramedullary fixation.
The development of crack patterns is a serious problem affecting the durability of orthopedic implants and the prognosis of patients.
This issue has gained considerable attention in the medical community in recent years.
This literature focuses on the five primary aspects relevant to the evaluation of the surface cracking patterns, i.e., inappropriate use, design flaws, inconsistent elastic modulus, allergic reaction, poor compatibility, and anti-corrosiveness.
The hope is that increased understanding will open doors to optimize fabrication for biomedical applications.
The latest technological issues and potential capabilities of implants that combine absorbable materials and shape memory alloys are also discussed.
This article will act as a roadmap to be employed in the realm of orthopedic.
Fatigue crack growth and the challenges associated with materials must be recognized to help make new implant technologies viable for wider clinical adoption.
This review presents a summary of recent findings on the fatigue mechanisms and fracture of implant in the initial period after surgery.
We propose solutions to common problems.
The recognition of essential complications and technical problems related to various approaches and material choices while satisfying clinical requirements is crucial. Additional investigation will be needed to surmount these challenges and reduce the likelihood of fatigue crack growth after implantation.
Fretting is a phenomenon that occurs at the contacts of surfaces that are subjected to oscillatory relative movement of small amplitudes.
Depending on service conditions, fretting may significantly reduce the service life of a component due to fretting fatigue.
In this regard, the analysis of stresses at contact is of great importance for predicting the lifetime of components.
However, due to the complexity of the fretting phenomenon, analytical solutions are available for very selective situations and finite element (FE) analysis has become an attractive tool to evaluate stresses and to study fretting problems.
Recent laboratory studies in fretting fatigue suggested the presence of stress singularities in the stick-slip zone.
In this paper, we constructed finite element models, with different element sizes, in order to verify the existence of stress singularity under fretting conditions.
Based on our results, we did not find any singularity for the considered loading conditions and coefficients of friction.
Since no singularity was found, the present paper also provides some comments regarding the convergence rate.
Our analyses showed that the convergence rate in stress components depends on coefficient of friction, implying that this rate also depends on the loading condition.
It was also observed that errors can be relatively high for cases with a high coefficient of friction, suggesting the importance of mesh refinement in these situations.
Although the accuracy of the FE analysis is very important for satisfactory predictions, most of the studies in the literature rarely provide information regarding the level of error in simulations.
Thus, some recommendations of mesh sizes for those who wish to perform FE analysis of fretting problems are provided for different levels of accuracy.
The femoral component of the artificial hip joint implanted in a patient's femur is subjected to a complex set of forces exerted due to normal life activities.
It is thought that high values of stress in the cement in a cemented prosthesis can lead to fractures of the cement mantle and loosening of the stem.
The incidence of such problems may be diminished by reduction of the fatigue notch factor in the cement, such that stress concentrations are avoided and the crack initiation time maximised.
This study describes a method for numerical shape optimisation to determine an optimal shape for the femoral stem of a hip prosthesis in order to minimise the fatigue notch factor in the cement layer at the interfaces with the bone and stem whilst at the same time maintaining or increasing the stress levels in the proximal medial femoral bone to help prevent stress shielding.
The method when used to optimise the shape of a stainless steel Charnley stem was found to be extremely efficient and effective.
The resulting optimal shape was heavily waisted in the proximal region below the neck but distally was quite similar to the original design.
The fatigue notch factors in the cement were reduced by 16% and 19% for medial and lateral cement/stem interfaces, respectively, and by 8% and 2% for the corresponding cement/bone interfaces.
The fatigue notch factor in the proximal medial bone was increased by 57% which indicates that the general stress level in this region is markedly increased.
Thus the optimised design should increase the fatigue life of the cement and at the same time reduce stress shielding in the proximal bone.
Both of these effects may help prevent loosening of the femoral component and hence reduce the need for early revision operations.
Concrete is susceptible to cracking owing to drying shrinkage, freeze-thaw cycles, delayed ettringite formation, reinforcement corrosion, creep and fatigue, etc.
Continuous inspection and maintenance of concrete infrastructure require onerous labor and high costs.
If the damaging cracks can heal by themselves without any human interference or intervention, that could be of great attraction.
In this study, a novel self-healing approach is investigated, in which fungi are applied to heal cracks in concrete by promoting calcium carbonate precipitation.
The goal of this investigation is to discover the most appropriate species of fungi for the application of biogenic crack repair.
Our results showed that, despite the significant pH increase owing to the leaching of calcium hydroxide from concrete, Aspergillus nidulans (MAD1445), a pH regulatory mutant, could grow on concrete plates and promote calcium carbonate precipitation.
The use of composite overlays to increase the fatigue life of notched steel samples is discussed in this paper.
For such purposes, in the first set of studies, static and fatigue tests as well as the detailed analytical and numerical analyses for samples with double-lap joints were performed.
Based on such studies, the shapes of the composite overlays were set.
For a better understanding of the failure forms of the investigated adhesive joints, the experimental studies were monitored with the use of digital image correlation.
In the second set of experimental studies, the static and fatigue tensile tests were performed for steel samples with a rectangular opening with rounded corners reinforced by composite overlays.
The different shapes (square 45 × 45 mm and long stripes 180 × 15 mm) and composite materials (GFRP and CFRP) were used as overlays.
The obtained improvement of fatigue life was in the range of 180-270% in the case of the rectangular overlays and 710% in the case of application of the overlays in the form of the long stripes.
This was also confirmed by numerical analyses in which a reduction in the stress concentration factor from 2.508 (bare sample) through 2.014-2.183 (square 45 × 45 mm overlays) to 1.366 (overlays in the form of long stripes 180 × 15 mm) was observed.
In the field of oil and gas transportation, X80 pipelines are susceptible to localized plastic deformation caused by mechanical impact or geological activity.
This leads to the formation of dents and the introduction of pre-strain, thereby affecting the structural integrity and fatigue life.
This study systematically investigates the influence mechanism of pre-strain on the high-cycle fatigue performance of dented regions in X80 steel.
Fatigue tests conducted across pre-strain levels of 1%, 2%, and 3% revealed that the induced plastic strain significantly degrades fatigue performance.
Under constant stress amplitude, fatigue life decreases markedly with increasing pre-strain, a trend driven by the accumulation of micro-damage.
The paper presents the results of fatigue-testing ultrafine-grained and coarse-grained Ti-45 wt.% Nb alloy samples under very high cycle fatigue (gigacycle regime), with the stress ratio R = -1.
The ultrafine-grained (UFG) structure in the investigated alloy was formed by the two-stage SPD method, which included multidirectional forging (abc-forging) and multipass rolling in grooved rollers, with further recrystallization annealing.
The UFG structure of the Ti-45 wt.% Nb alloy samples increased the fatigue limit under the high-cycle fatigue conditions up to 1.5 times compared with that of the coarse-grained (CG) samples.
The infrared thermography method was applied to investigate the evolution of temperature fields in the samples under cyclic loading.
Based on numerical morphology analysis, the scale invariance (the Hurst exponent) and qualitative differences for UFG and CG structures were determined.
The latter resulted from the initiation and propagation of fatigue cracks in both ultra-fine grained and coarse-grained alloy samples under very high-cycle fatigue loading.
Internal cracks could be healed under the process of hot plastic deformation.
In this study, mechanical properties recovery after crack healing in SA 508⁻3 steel were investigated.
Microstructures of the crack healing zones were observed using an optical microscope (OM) and electron back scattered diffraction (EBSD) technology, and the recovery degrees of mechanical properties in the crack healing zones with the healing temperature and a reduction ratio were tested systematically.
The results showed that the internal cracks in SA 508⁻3 steel disappeared and were replaced by newly formed grains, achieved by recrystallization and abnormal grain growth.
The tensile properties of crack healing zones could be fully restored, while their impact and low cycle fatigue properties could only be partially achieved.
The recovery degrees of mechanical properties in crack healing zones increased with increasing the healing temperature and reduction ratio in the temperature range of 950⁻1050 °C.
When the temperature was above 1150 °C, the impact properties began to deteriorate because of grain coarsening and larger MA (martensite⁻austenite) constituents.
The microstructural evolution of the crack zone in the SA 508⁻3 steel was sketched.
Flexible supercapacitors are an important portable energy storage but suffer from low capacitance, inability to stretch, etc.
Therefore, flexible supercapacitors must achieve higher capacitance, energy density, and mechanical robustness to expand the applications.
Herein, a hydrogel electrode with excellent mechanical strength was created by simulating the collagen fiber network and proteoglycan in cartilage using silk nanofiber (SNF) network and polyvinyl alcohol (PVA).
The Young's modulus and breaking strength of the hydrogel electrode increased by 205 % and 91 % compared with PVA hydrogel owing to the enhanced effect of the bionic structure, respectively, which are 1.22 MPa and 1.3 MPa. The fracture energy and fatigue threshold reached 1813.5 J/m
The elastic anisotropy and heterogeneity effects of coarse-grained austenite on ultrasonic propagation significantly undermine the effectiveness of ultrasonic property-based fatigue damage evaluation.
A discrete method based on electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) was proposed to decouple the effects between coarse-grained structure and fatigue damage.
An orientation-based damage index, local misorientation (M
Corrosion is a common form of durability degradation of steel bridges.
Corrosion morphology affects stress distribution under cyclic loads and causes strain concentrations in pits, thus affecting the mechanical properties of steel structures, including ultra-low cycle fatigue (ULCF).
To precisely simulate corrosion morphology and investigate the ULCF failure mechanism of corroded steel piers, a sculpting method was applied to mesh units using three-dimensional surface morphology data of corroded steel specimens.
Moreover, the ULCF crack-initiation life was numerically predicted using the finite element model based on the cyclic void growth model (CVGM).
The cumulative equivalent plastic strain, cyclic void growth index, and critical void growth index of corroded steel piers with different corroded morphologies were compared.
Results reveal that, regardless of whether the pier is corroded, fatigue cracks tend to initiate at the weld toe at corners when exposed to cyclic loads under an oblique direction at the pier top.
Additionally, the ULCF crack-initiation life in a corroded pier is less than that in an uncorroded pier, and it is significantly affected by a reduction in the pier wall thickness.
Corrosion pits affect the position of ULCF crack initiation in a steel pier and cracks tend to initiate at the bottom of pits with large depth-to-diameter ratios.
In the case of minor corrosion, the corrosion morphology affects the seismic performance of piers to a small extent.
Microdamage-targeted resorption is paradoxal, because it entails the removal of bone from a region that was already overloaded.
Under continued intense loading, resorption spaces could potentially cause more damage than they remove.
To investigate this problem, we incorporated damage algorithms in a computer-simulation model for trabecular remodeling.
We simulated damage accumulation and bone remodeling in a trabecular architecture, for two fatigue regimens, a 'moderate' regimen, and an 'intense' regimen with a higher number of loading cycles per day.
Both simulations were also performed without bone remodeling to investigate if remodeling removed or exacerbated the damage.
We found that remodeling tends to remove damage under the 'moderate' fatigue regimen, but it exacerbates damage under the 'intense' regimen.
This harmful effect of remodeling may play a role in the development of stress fractures.
This paper presents the reasoning and adaptive learning method of artificial neural network (ANN) for micro-crack assessment and damage accumulation due to stiffness loss of dog bone.
The importance of using the alternative approach of ANN is that it avoids the complexity of modeling problems, overrides the consideration of simplified assumptions and can be developed directly from experimental data using adaptive learning mechanisms.
The proposed artificial neural network model provides a relationship between microdamage accumulation, stiffness loss and number of fatigue cycles (Nf) to failure from an experimental study where stiffness loss and crack area (Cr.Ar., mm2/mm2) are evaluated.
This preliminary study using ANN for microdamage evaluation shows that ANN accurately predicts the amount of damage accumulation from stiffness loss.
Overuse ligament and tendon injuries are prevalent among recreational and competitive adolescent athletes.
In vitro studies of the ligament and tendon suggest that mechanical overuse musculoskeletal injuries begin with collagen triple-helix unraveling, leading to collagen laxity and matrix damage.
However, there are little in vivo data concerning this mechanism or the physiomechanical response to collagen disruption, particularly regarding the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
To develop and validate a novel in vivo animal model for investigating the physiomechanical response to ACL collagen matrix damage accumulation and propagation in the ACL midsubstance, fibrocartilaginous entheses, and subchondral bone.
C57BL/6J adolescent inbred mice underwent 3 moderate to strenuous ACL fatigue loading sessions with a 72-hour recovery between sessions.
Before each session, randomly selected subsets of mice (n = 12) were euthanized for quantifying collagen matrix damage (percent collagen unraveling) and ACL mechanics (strength and stiffness).
This enabled the quasi-longitudinal assessment of collagen matrix damage accrual and whole tissue mechanical property changes across fatigue sessions.
Additionally, all cyclic loading data were quantified to evaluate changes in knee mechanics (stiffness and hysteresis) across fatigue sessions.
Moderate to strenuous fatigue loading across 3 sessions led to a 24% weaker ( This study confirmed the hypothesis that in vivo ACL collagen matrix damage increases with tissue fatigue sessions, adversely impacting ACL mechanical properties.
Moreover, the in vivo ACL findings were consistent with in vitro overloading research in humans.
The outcomes from this study support the use of this model for investigating ACL overuse injuries.
Silver nanowire (AgNW) networks have emerged as one of the most promising materials for flexible transparent conductive electrodes.
These wires offer excellent electrical, optical, and mechanical properties and can be applied using low-cost printing techniques with the potential for upscaling.
To elucidate the mechanical properties of nanowire networks for use in flexible electronics, it is essential to first characterize the behavior of individual wires adhered to the polymer surface under mechanical loading of the polymer.
This study investigates the mechanical response of isolated nanowires during uniaxial in situ tensile testing of the polymer using correlative microscopy, which combines the advantages of light and electron microscopy.
By changing the orientation of the nanowires with respect to the tensile straining axis of the polymer, the nanowires experience either tensile (for parallel orientation) or compressive forces (for perpendicular orientation) according to the polymer's elastic-plastic Poisson's ratio, which links lateral contraction of the polymer to tensile strain.
Aligned and isolated AgNWs were applied to flat surfaces of two polymers, PET and PDMS, which serve as model systems to investigate the effect of the substrate on the mechanical response of the nanowires.
We observe a strong influence of the polymer type on the wire deformation behavior and fracture, which we attribute to the different adhesion strength of the wires on PET and PDMS.
While the wires on PET undergo multiple fractures, breaking into segments of roughly equal length under tensile loading, those on PDMS typically fracture only once, accompanied by early sliding of the wire on the substrate.
Compression tests revealed localized plastic deformation by nanowire kinking with the formation of new grain boundaries for both polymer substrates.
Electron microscopy studies revealed different deformation configurations depending on the amount of load applied.
In addition, cyclic compressive tests provided insight into the fatigue behavior of the wires.
Here, newly formed grain boundaries acted as potential fracture sites, whereas the purely elastic deformation remained fully reversible up to 1000 cycles.
The formation of grain boundary (GB) brittle carbides with a complex three-dimensional (3-D) morphology can be detrimental to both the fatigue properties and corrosion resistance of a biomedical titanium alloy.
A detailed microscopic study has been performed on an as-sintered biomedical Ti-15Mo (in wt.%) alloy containing 0.032 wt.% C.
A noticeable presence of a carbon-enriched phase has been observed along the GB, although the carbon content is well below the maximum carbon limit of 0.1 wt.% specified by ASTM Standard F2066.
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) identified that the carbon-enriched phase is face-centred cubic Ti2C. 3-D tomography reconstruction revealed that the Ti2C structure has morphology similar to primary α-Ti.
Nanoindentation confirmed the high hardness and high Young's modulus of the GB Ti2C phase.
To avoid GB carbide formation in Ti-15Mo, the carbon content should be limited to 0.006 wt.% by Thermo-Calc predictions.
Similar analyses and characterization of the carbide formation in biomedical unalloyed Ti, Ti-6Al-4V and Ti-16Nb have also been performed.
The fatigue limits and fracture characteristics for three Pd-Ag dental casting alloys (Super Star, Heraeus Kulzer; Rx 91, Pentron; W-1, Ivoclar Vivadent) were studied.
Specimens meeting the dimensions for ADA Specifications No. 5 and 38, and having the as-cast surface condition, were subjected to heat treatment simulating dental porcelain firing cycles and fatigued in air at room temperature under uniaxial tension-compression at 10 Hz.
A ratio of compressive stress amplitude to tensile stress amplitude (R-ratio) of -1 was used.
Alloy microstructures and fracture surfaces were examined with a scanning electron microscope and a transmission electron microscope.
Fatigue limits for the three alloys had low values of approximately 15% of the yield strength for 0.2% permanent tensile strain.
Complex fracture surfaces with characteristic striations were observed for all three fatigued alloys.
Planar slip of dislocations occurred in the Pd solid solution matrix, along with dislocation-precipitate interactions and dislocation networks in the interfaces between the precipitates and surrounding matrix.
Twinning occurred in the Pd solid solution matrix of Rx 91, and within discontinuous precipitates in Super Star and Rx 91.
The low fatigue limits for these alloys are attributed to their complex microstructures and perhaps to casting defects.
Tendon damage and injury are often linked with repetitive loading, which can induce microdamage that diminishes the elasticity and strength of the tissue.
The current study investigated whether wave propagation metrics could serve as a surrogate measure of microdamage in tendon fascicles.
We extracted 18 tail tendon fascicles from tails of 9-month-old F344XBN rats and subjected them to cyclic loading to failure (0-5% peak strain, 0.5 Hz).
Transient shear waves were induced via an impulsive tap applied transversely at 50 Hz.
Wave propagation along the fascicle was tracked noninvasively using two laser Doppler vibrometers.
Second harmonic generation (SHG) imaging confirmed that the fatigue protocol induced microdamage, characterized by kinked fibers, voids, and misalignment in longitudinal images.
Wave speeds were well-described by a tensioned beam model, increasing in proportion to the square root of axial stress.
Cyclic fatigue loading significantly reduced fascicle elasticity and diminished stress and wave speed at a given stretch.
Notably, wave speeds also increased modestly with cyclic loading at a given stress level, suggesting stress may be elevated on intact structures as microdamage accumulates.
These findings demonstrate that wave propagation metrics may provide a non-invasive, quantitative approach to tracking stress and fatigue-related changes in tendon material and structural properties.
The fatigue crack growth rate (FCGR) of aluminium alloys under the combined influence of temperature and humidity remains a relatively unexplored area, receiving limited attention due to its intricate nature and challenges in predicting the combined impact of these factors.
The challenge was to investigate and address the specific mechanisms and interactions between temperature and humidity, as in coastal environment conditions, on the FCGR of aluminium alloy.
The present study conducts a comprehensive investigation into the combined influence of temperature and humidity on the FCGR of the Al6082 alloy.
The fatigue pre-cracked compact tension specimens were corroded for 7 days and then subjected to various temperature and humidity conditions in a thermal chamber for 3 days to simulate coastal environments.
The obtained data were analysed to determine the influence of temperature and humidity on the FCGR of the Al6082 alloy.
An empirical model was also established to precisely predict fatigue life cycle values under these environmental conditions.
The correlation between FCGR and fracture toughness models was also examined.
The Al6082 alloy exhibits a 34% increase in the Paris constant C, indicating reduced FCGR resistance due to elevated temperature and humidity levels.
At the same time, fatigue, corrosion, moisture-assisted crack propagation, and hydrogen embrittlement lead to a 27% decrease in threshold fracture toughness.
The developed model exhibited accurate predictions for fatigue life cycles, and the correlation between fracture toughness and FCGR showed an error of less than 10%, indicating a strong relationship between these parameters.
Fretting fatigue experiments and finite element analysis were carried out to investigate the influence of cylindrical-on-flat contact on crack nucleation, crack path and fatigue life of medium-carbon steel.
The location of crack nucleation was predicted using the maximum shear stress range criterion and the maximum relative slip amplitude criterion.
The prediction using the maximum relative slip amplitude criterion gave the better agreement with the experimental result, and should be used for the prediction of the location of crack nucleation.
Crack openings under compressive bulk stresses were found in the fretting fatigues with flat-on-flat contact and cylindrical-on-flat contacts, i.e., fretting-contact-induced crack openings.
The crack opening stress of specimen with flat-on-flat contact was lower than those of specimens with cylindrical-on-flat contacts, while that of specimen with 60-mm radius contact pad was lower than that of specimen with 15-mm radius contact pad.
The fretting fatigue lives were estimated by integrating the fatigue crack growth curve from an initial propagating crack length to a critical crack length.
The predictions of fretting fatigue life with consideration of crack opening were in good agreement with the experimental results.
A two-dimensional finite element model of an idealized trabecular bone specimen was developed to study trabecular bone damage accumulation during cyclic compressive loading.
The specimen was modeled as a two-dimensional honeycomb-like structure made up of an array of hexagonal cells.
Each trabecula was modeled as a linearly elastic beam element with the same material properties as cortical bone.
Initial microcracks were assumed to exist within the oblique trabeculae and to grow according to the Paris law.
Forces and moments were computed in each trabecula and the microcracks were allowed to propagate until fracture occurred.
Between cycles, fractured trabeculae were removed from the finite element mesh, and force and moment distributions were calculated for the next cycle.
This iterative process was continued until the simulated trabecular bone specimen showed a 10% reduction in modulus.
Creep failure was also studied using a single cell analysis, in which a closed-form solution was obtained after prescribing the creep properties of the trabeculae.
The results of the crack propagation analysis showed that fractures of only a small number of individual trabeculae can cause a substantial reduction in the modulus of the trabecular bone specimen model.
Statistical tests were performed to compare the slopes and intercepts of the S-N curves of our model predictions to those of experimentally derived S-N curves for bovine trabecular bone.
There was no significant difference (p > 0.2 for both slope and intercept) between our model predictions and the experimentally derived S-N curves for the low-stress, high-cycle range.
For the high-stress, low-cycle range, the crack propagation model overestimated the fatigue life for a given stress level (for slope, p < 0.001), while the creep analysis agreed well with the experimental data (for slope, p > 0.2).
These findings suggest that the primary failure mechanism for low-stress, high-cycle fatigue of trabecular bone is crack growth and propagation, while the primary failure mechanism for high-stress, low-cycle fatigue is creep deformation and fracture.
Furthermore, our results suggest that the modulus of trabecular bone at the specimen level may be highly sensitive to fractures of individual trabeculae.
The purpose of this biomechanical study was to compare the mechanical properties of specially designed locked nails and screws with the same structures and made from either stainless steel or titanium alloy.
The structural factors investigated included inner diameter and root radius for locking screws and outer diameter and nail hole size for locked nails.
The mechanical properties investigated included yield load, cyclic bending stiffness, and fatigue life.
Finite element models were used to simulate the mechanical tests and compute the stress concentration factors.
Increasing the root radius and the inner diameter could effectively increase the fatigue life of the locking screws.
The fatigue life of titanium screws was higher (by 1.4- to >6-fold) than that of stainless steel screws, especially when the inner diameter was increased.
In contrast, the fatigue life of titanium locked nails was lower (by about 1/4 to 1/3) than that of their stainless steel counterparts.
Finite element models could closely predict the results of the biomechanical tests with a Pearson correlation coefficient that ranged from -0.58 to -0.84 for screws and was -0.98 for nails.
The stress concentration factors ranged from 1 to 1.97 for screws and from 3.89 to 4.99 for nails.
The present study suggested that with larger root radius and inner diameter, titanium locking screws could provide much higher fatigue life than stainless steel counterparts.
However, titanium locked nails might lose their advantages of superior mechanical strength because of high notch sensitivity, and this limitation should be taken seriously during the design process.
This study presents the results of tests involving determining quantities used to describe fracture toughness of a heat-treated AA2519 aluminum alloy applied in, among other things, constructing American military amphibians.
These quantities were determined using the J-R curve method for two temperature values, 293 K and 77 K.
The low temperature was provided by putting the tested specimen into a liquid nitrogen bath and keeping it there throughout the experiment.
Based on the tests results, cryogenic conditions cause an increase in the maximum experimental value of the J-J
The aim of the present study was to analyze the fracture surface of nickel-titanium K3 rotary files submitted to different modes of mechanical loading.
Torsional and flexural fatigue tests were realized separately in 2 groups of files.
Additional 2 groups of files were tested in mixed loading modes, torsional test after incomplete flexural fatigue test and flexural fatigue test after incomplete torsional test.
Scanning electronic microscopy observation was used to make a fractographic analysis of the files under test.
The files fractured during torsional resistance tests showed fractographies with a central area containing dimples, which are oval-shaped depressions in the microstructure in places of high local plastic deformation.
The peripheral area of these files' fractographies presented a flattened aspect without dimples.
The fractographies of the files fractured by flexural fatigue presented one area with radial striations and another area containing dimples.
The fractographic patterns observed when mixed loading modes were imposed correspond to the pattern defined by the second stage test.
The patterns established for the fractured files provide consistent bases to explain the fracture process in clinical conditions by fractographic analysis.
The objective of this research is to develop an experimental-theoretical analysis about the influence of the cooling medium and the geometry of the welding bead profile in fatigue life and the associated parameters with structural integrity of welded joints.
A welded joint with cruciform geometry is considered using SMAW (Shielded Metal ArcWelding), plates in structural steel ASTM A36 HR of 8 mm of thickness, and E6013 electrode input.
A three-dimensional computational model of the cruciform joint was created using the finite element method.
For this model, the surface undulation of the cord and differentiation in the mechanical properties of the fusion zone were considered, the heat-affected zone (HAZ) and base material, respectively.
In addition, an initial residual stress field, which was established experimentally, was considered.
The results were a set of analytical expressions for the weld magnification factor M
The different creep-aging forming processes of 2524 aluminum alloy were taken as the research object, and the effects of creep-aging temperature and creep stress on the fatigue-crack propagation properties of the alloy were studied.
The research results showed the following under the same sintering time of 9 h, at creep-aging temperatures of 100 °C, 130 °C, 160 °C, and 180 °C, respectively, with an increase in creep-aging temperature: the fatigue-crack propagation rate was promoted, the spacing of fatigue striations increased, and the sizes of dimples decreased while the number was enlarged; this proves that the fatigue property of the alloy was weakened.
Compared with the specimens with creep deformation radii of 1000 mm and 1500 mm, the creep deformation stress was the smallest when the forming radius was 1800 mm, with a higher threshold value of fatigue-crack growth in the near-threshold region of fatigue-crack propagation (Δ
The biomechanical difficulty in fixation of a Vancouver B1 periprosthetic fracture is purchase of the proximal femoral segment in the presence of the hip stem.
Several newer technologies provide the ability to place bicortical locking screws tangential to the hip stem with much longer lengths of screw purchase compared with unicortical screws.
This biomechanical study compares the stability of 2 of these newer constructs to previous methods.
Thirty composite synthetic femurs were prepared with cemented hip stems.
The distal femur segment was osteotomized, and plates were fixed proximally with either (1) cerclage cables, (2) locked unicortical screws, (3) a composite of locked screws and cables, or tangentially directed bicortical locking screws using either (4) a stainless steel locking compression plate system with a Locking Attachment Plate (Synthes) or (5) a titanium alloy Non-Contact Bridging system (Zimmer).
Specimens were tested to failure in either axial or torsional quasistatic loading modes (n = 3) after 20 moderate load preconditioning cycles.
Stiffness, maximum force, and failure mechanism were determined.
Bicortical constructs resisted higher (by an average of at least 27%) maximum forces than the other 3 constructs in torsional loading (P < 0.05).
Cables constructs exhibited lower maximum force than all other constructs, in both axial and torsional loading.
The bicortical titanium construct was stiffer than the bicortical stainless steel construct in axial loading.
Proximal fixation stability is likely improved with the use of bicortical locking screws as compared with traditional unicortical screws and cable techniques.
In this study with a limited sample size, we found the addition of cerclage cables to unicortical screws may not offer much improvement in biomechanical stability of unstable B1 fractures.
Cold roll forming used in the manufacturing of lightweight steel profiles for racking storage systems is associated with localized, non-uniform plastic deformations in the corner sections of the profiles, which act as fatigue damage initiation sites.
In order to obtain a clearer insight on the role of existing plastic deformation on material fatigue performance, the effect of plastic pre-straining on the low cycle fatigue behavior of S355MC and S460MC steels was investigated.
The steels were plastically deformed at different pre-strain levels under tension, and subsequently subjected to cyclic strain-controlled testing.
Plastic pre-straining was found to increase cyclic yield strength, decrease ductility, and induce cyclic softening, which, in S460MC, degrades fatigue resistance compared to the unstrained material. In unstrained conditions, the materials present a cyclic softening to hardening transition with increasing plastic strain amplitude, which in S355MC occurs at lower strain amplitudes and degrades its fatigue resistance with regard to the pre-strained material. Pre-straining also leads to a reduction in transition life from low to high cycle fatigue.
SEM fractography, performed following the onset of crack initiation, revealed that plastic pre-straining reduces the fatigue fracture section as well as striation spacing, predominantly in the S355MC steel.
Microdamage would be accumulated in bone due to high-intensity training or even normal daily activity, which may consequently cause fragility fracture or stress fracture.
On the other hand, microdamage formation serves as a toughening mechanism in bone.
However, the mechanisms that control microdamage initiation and accumulation in bone are still poorly understood.
Our previous finite element model indicated that different interfacial properties between mineral and collagen in bone may lead to distinct patterns of microdamage accumulation.
Therefore, the current study was designed to examine such prediction and to investigate the role of water and mineral-collagen interactions on microdamage accumulation in bone.
To address these issues, 48 mice femurs were divided randomly into four groups.
These groups were dehydrated or treated with perfluorotripropylamine (PFTA) or NaF solution to change water distribution and mineral-collagen interfacial bonding in bone.
After three-point bending fatigue tests, the types of microdamage (i.e., linear microcracks or diffuse damage) formed in bone were compared between different groups.
The results suggested that (1) bone tissues with strong mineral-collagen interfacial bonding facilitate the formation of linear microcraks, and (2) water has little contribution to the growth of microcracks.
Highly cross-linked ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) is increasingly used as a bearing material in total hip replacements.
Cross-linking of UHMWPE has been shown to increase wear resistance but decrease its fracture resistance.
We analyzed the clinical fracture failure of four cross-linked UHMWPE total hip replacement components of four different designs via microscopic observation of the fracture surfaces, and found that in all cases fractures initiated at stress concentrations in an unsupported region of the component (termed the elevated rim).
Finite element analyses (FEA) of each individual implant design were then conducted.
Results from this analysis demonstrated that the predicted magnitude and orientation of maximum principal stress due to mechanical loading of the elevated rim was sufficient to propagate initiated fatigue cracks in each case.
FEA also predicted that cracks may arrest after some amount of growth due to a steep stress gradient near the initiation site.
Further, while anatomical positioning of the implant and material properties affect the risk of fracture, we examined whether these failures are strongly related to the notched elevated rim design feature that is common to the four failed cases presented here.
We believe that cross-linked UHMWPE remains an excellent bearing material for total hip replacements but that designs employing this material should mitigate stress concentrations or other design features that increase the risk of fracture.
Bone-patellar tendon-bone (BPTB) graft is a popular choice for ACL reconstruction.
These grafts are subjected to cyclic loading during the activities of daily living.
Significant knee laxity is observed in reconstructed knee shortly after reconstruction.
The source of this laxity is not clear.
The change in the tensile properties of the graft due to cyclic loading can be one of the reasons for the change in knee laxity.
Twenty patellar tendons from fresh frozen cadaver knees were cyclically loaded at a stress amplitude equivalent to 33% of the failure strength of the contralateral patellar tendon for 5000 cycles at 1.4Hz.
They were then tested in tension to failure.
Failure properties and the low load properties such as toe-region modulus were calculated.
The results were compared with those of contralateral patellar tendons that were not subjected to cyclic loading before testing to failure.
Fatigue loading did not alter the failure and low load properties with the exception of failure strain which decreased by about 10% (P<.05).
Cyclically loaded patellar tendons with higher tissue mass density possess higher strength, modulus of elasticity, toughness, and transition stress (P<.05).
The results indicate that there is no significant change in graft properties because of cyclic loading with the above load magnitude.
The change in knee laxity observed after reconstruction, hence, is not because of change in graft properties due to moderate cyclic loading.
Other factors, such as plastic deformation (yielding) of the graft, might play a role in increased knee laxity after reconstruction.
Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (commonly known as myositis) is a group of immune-related diseases characterized by muscle damage, weakness, and fatigue with unknown causes.
Although overactivated innate immunity is a widely believed cause of myositis onset, the mechanism that provokes and maintains a high immune response in myositis patients is still unclear.
This study aims to test if brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) deficiency per se is sufficient to cause myositis and determine its underlying mechanism.
We found that ablating BDNF production in skeletal muscle is sufficient to trigger myositis development in mice.
Muscle-specific Bdnf knockout (MBKO) mice displayed extensive myocyte necrosis, mononuclear cell infiltration, and myophagocytosis.
In association with these damages, elevated production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL) 23, IL-1β, IL-18, and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) was found in the muscle of MBKO mice.
Disruption of sarcolemma integrity was also detected in MBKO mice, which is a result of necroptosis executioner Mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL) and pyroptosis executioner Gasdermin D (GSDMD) activation.
Mechanistically, diminishing BDNF synthesis in myotubes enhances the accumulation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), which sensitizes the cells towards TNFα-induced receptor-interacting protein kinase (RIPs) activation and promotes the formation of NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3)-containing inflammasome.
BDNF deficiency-induced cell death could be alleviated by scavenging mtROS, suppressing the activity of GSDMD, or inhibiting receptor-interacting kinase 3 (RIP3).
Similarly, supplementation of BDNF mimetics, suppression of RIP3 activity, increasing the intramyocellular antioxidant, or enhancing mitophagy ameliorated the myopathies of MBKO mice and improved their muscle strength.
Together, our study demonstrates that insufficient BDNF production in mouse muscle causes the development of pathological features of myositis via enhancing oxidative stress, necroptosis, and pyroptosis in myofibers.
A large amount of heat accumulates in the engine bay for a short time after the engine runs at high load and shuts down, that will lead to thermal damage and thermal fatigue caused by the temperature rise of some heat sensitive components.
This paper uses an aero-thermal coupling approach to study the heat transfer problem in the engine bay of an SUV model under thermal soak conditions.
Due to the transient characteristics of the heat transfer process, the natural transient CFD software developed based on the LBM method is used to study the engine bay heat transfer during the 400 s key-off soak process.
The analysis reveals that convection and radiation are the main heat transfer modes in the early stage of hot immersion (0-120 s), and conduction only makes a significant contribution in contact with high temperature sources.
The radiation and convection are the key contributors to heat transfer processes of engine bay during soak, but the efficiency of radiation heat transfer decreases with the increase of time, whereas the efficiency of convection heat transfer is not always reduced, it will increase and then decrease with the increase of time.
The coupling method established can predict the thermal state in the engine bay well, and is in good agreement with the experimental results.
The results show that the error in the engine coolant temperature is less than 1 °C, and the error in the temperature of the heat-sensitive components is less than 5 °C.
Finally, the potential risks of thermal damage and thermal fatigue states were assessed, providing an important reference for the control design of cooling fan running time after key-off.
The nondestructive detection of early fatigue damage states is of high importance for safety in aircraft, automobiles, railways, nuclear energy industries and chemical industries.
Titanium alloys commonly used in aerospace for structures and engine components are subject to fatigue damage during service.
In the current study fatigue damage progression in a titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4V) was investigated using thermographic detection of the heat dissipated during short-term mechanical loading.
The initial rate of temperature increase induced by the short-term mechanical loading was used to indicate the current microstructural state and presence of prior fatigue damage.
Two methods for thermal excitation were investigated (a) high amplitude mechanical loading and (b) small amplitude ultrasonic loading.
A formula that describes the temperature enhancement due to heat generation during one loading cycle is derived from high amplitude loading data.
A correlation between the temperature increase during short-term ultrasonic loading and accumulated fatigue cycles is used to suggest a methodology for in-field assessment of fatigue condition.
This study aims to explore the effects and potential mechanisms of PKM2-mediated neuroinflammation leading to mitochondrial damage and its role in the progression of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).
Bioinformatics methods were applied to predict and analyze PKM2 and downstream signaling factors.
In vivo experiments were conducted with mice divided into four groups after different treatments: control group, model group, Model + PKM2-OE group, and Model + PKM2-KD group.
Morris water maze and field tests were used to assess cognitive function, grip strength, and rotation tests to evaluate physical strength.
HE and Nissl staining were used to observe cellular conditions in the CA1 region of the hippocampus.
Immunohistochemistry was used to detect PKM2 levels in the CA1 region.
Western blot was performed to assess protein expression, lactate assay kits measured serum and brain tissue lactate levels, and ELISA detected inflammatory factors in brain tissue.
Bioinformatics analysis showed that PKM2 could promote the expression of glycolytic factors, leading to H4K12la histone lactylation modification, which enhances the expression of inflammatory factors such as NF-κB, resulting in mitochondrial damage.
Compared to the control group, the cognitive function of the model group significantly declined, while the cognitive function of the Model + PKM2-OE group improved.
However, cognitive function worsened in the Model + PKM2-KD group compared to the model group.
The physical strength of the control group was normal, and no significant differences were observed in the model, Model + PKM2-OE, and Model + PKM2-KD groups.
Cell quantity and arrangement in the control group were normal, while the model group showed fewer and disorganized cells.
The Model + PKM2-OE group showed further deterioration compared to the model group, whereas the Model + PKM2-KD group showed improvement.
Compared to the control group, the model group had increased expression of PKM2, H4K12la, H4, IL-1β, and TNFα.
Compared to the model group, these markers were even higher in the Model + PKM2-OE group, but significantly reduced in the Model + PKM2-KD group.
Serum lactate levels increased in the model group compared to the control group, but there was no significant difference between the Model + PKM2-OE and Model + PKM2-KD groups.
Brain tissue lactate levels increased in the model group, further elevated in the Model + PKM2-OE group, but decreased in the Model + PKM2-KD group.
PKM2 in hippocampal cells enhances glycolysis, lactate accumulation, and H4K12la/NF-κB-mediated neuroinflammation, leading to mitochondrial damage and accelerating the progression of chronic fatigue syndrome.
This study compared cadaveric distal ulnar neck fractures following fixation with either retrograde intramedullary threaded nail (IMTN) fixation or volar-locked plate and screw (VLPS) fixation.
We hypothesized that there would be no differences in fatigue resistance between the two methods.
Twelve matched pairs of cadaveric forearms were randomized into either wrist flexion-extension or forearm pronation-supination groups.
In each group, six forearm pairs were cut at the distal ulnar neck.
One was fixed with IMTN fixation, and their matched pair was fixed with VLPS fixation.
Forearms were cycled 2,000 times with a servohydraulic testing system under displacement control with a physiologic force necessary to move the forearm.
Fracture displacement was measured with a linear variable differential transformer.
The primary outcome was mean cycles completed, which represented fatigue resistance.
Secondary outcomes, after 2,000 cycles, included net displacement and absolute net displacement, which represented damage accumulation.
During wrist flexion-extension cyclic loading, one IMTN specimen failed, and no significant differences were found between the VLPS and IMTN groups in cycles completed net displacement or absolute net displacement.
During forearm pronation-supination cyclic loading, four IMTN specimens failed and the IMTN group completed significantly fewer cycles than the VLPS group, but net displacement and absolute net displacement were greater in the VLPS groups than the IMTN groups.
During cyclic loading of a distal ulnar neck fracture model, IMTN fixation demonstrated statistically similar fatigue resistance compared with VLPS fixation during wrist flexion-extension.
However, during forearm pronation-supination, IMTN fixation demonstrated statistically lower fatigue resistance compared with VLPS fixation.
Both IMTN fixation and VLPS fixation stabilize distal ulnar neck fractures sufficiently to allow for immediate wrist flexion-extension.
VLPS fixation stabilizes distal ulnar neck fractures sufficiently to allow for immediate pronation-supination, while this should be considered with caution in IMTN fixation.
Sixty-four fractured commercially pure titanium (cp-Ti) narrow dental implants (NDIs) with similar macrogeometry and connection designs were studied after different implantation times in humans in order to determine their reliability and to evaluate the causes of the fracture.
These NDIs were compared with other similar implants, made with alloyed titanium with 15% Zr and with 12% strained titanium.
Original implants were tested under static and fatigue conditions, simulating the tri-axial loads in the mouth by means of a Bionix hydraulic test machine.
Fractography was studied using field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FSEM).
The results showed that cp-Ti NDI exhibits low strength for mechanical cycling, and the alloyed Ti and strained titanium increase the mechanical strength, guaranteeing long term mechanical behavior.
NDIs fractured due to fatigue, and, in some cases, the presence of cracks in the original NDIs quickly led to fracture.
These cracks were attributed to plastic deformation during machining were found to be exacerbated due to acid etching in the passivation process.
All cases of fracture were cp-Ti dental implants due to the low fatigue limit.
The results show that, when titanium is alloyed or cold-worked, the fatigue limit is higher than cp-Ti.
This in vitro research will help clinicians to select a better NDI system for safer treatment.
The different behaviors of the mechanical properties of drawn and caliber-rolled wires with applied strain were investigated to determine the appropriate process between wire drawing and caliber rolling with consideration of materials and process conditions.
Ferritic, pearlitic, and TWIP steels were drawn and caliber-rolled under the same process conditions.
Caliber-rolled wires exhibited a hardening behavior in the early deformation stage and softening behavior in the later deformation stage compared with the drawn wires, regardless of the steel.
The hardening behavior of the caliber-rolled wires was explained by the higher strain induced by caliber rolling compared with wire drawing, especially the higher amount of redundant work in caliber-rolled wire.
The caliber-rolled wire had approximately 36% higher strain than the drawn wire and approximately 85% higher strain than nominal strain.
The softening behavior of the caliber-rolled wire in later deformation stages was related to the Bauschinger effect or low-cycle fatigue effect caused by the roll geometries and loading conditions during caliber rolling.
The different intersection points of the tensile strength between drawn and caliber-rolled wires with the steels were attributed to the different strain hardening rates of each steel.
Between the options of the caliber rolling and wire drawing processes, the appropriate process should be selected according to the strain hardening rate of the material and the amount of plastic deformation.
For instance, when the wires need to deform at high levels, wire drawing is the better process because of the appearance of the Bauschinger effect in caliber-rolled wire.
The fatigue behavior of continuous fiber-reinforced composite materials is still not fully understood, particularly under multiaxial out-of-phase loading conditions.
This study assesses the multiaxial fatigue behavior of thin-walled carbon fiber-reinforced polymer (CFRP) tubular specimens fabricated by filament winding (FW).
A comprehensive experimental study is presented, investigating axial-torsion loads, phase shifts (0°, 45°, and 90°), and load ratios (-1, 0.05, and 0.5).
Simultaneously, the acoustic emission (AE) method provides supplementary data for assessing fatigue damage accumulation.
Consequently, a shear nonlinear material model and progressive damage in a shell-based finite element model were applied for stress analysis.
The experimental results demonstrate the negative influence of a 90° out-of-phase load and the detrimental effect of mean stress for investigated positive load ratios.
These findings offer valuable insights into the impact of phase shift (
After treatment completion, breast cancer (BC) survivors frequently experience residual symptoms of pain, fatigue, high levels of psychological stress, anxiety, depression, fear of recurrence, and metastasis.
Post-treatment stress, in particular, can adversely affect health-related quality of life, which, in turn, induces onset or recurrence of chronic diseases.
Effective interventions that target these psychological symptoms and their physiological consequences are needed, especially for economically disadvantaged patients.
However, in China, few evidence-based intervention strategies have been established among BC survivors.
This study will formally adapt, develop, and evaluate an intensive mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) intervention protocol to improve mental health, quality of life, and compliance with medication among Chinese BC survivors.
A randomized, waitlist-controlled clinical trial will be conducted.
Based on our power calculation, 418 BC survivors will be recruited from 10 low-income communities in Shanghai.
All subjects will be randomly assigned either to the MBSR program or to a waitlisted usual care regimen that will offer the MBSR program after the completion of the other trial arm (after 6 months follow-up).
Our 8-week MBSR intervention program will provide systematic training to promote stress reduction by self-regulating arousal to stress.
Assessments will be made at baseline, 4 weeks (in the middle of the first MBSR intervention), 8 weeks (at the end of the first MBSR intervention), 6 months, and 12 months, and will include measures of psychological symptoms (depression, anxiety, and perceived stress), quality of life, and medication adherence.
The expected outcome will be the improvement in psychological symptoms, quality of life, and medication compliance in the MBSR intervention group.
This study will help develop an affordable, self-care psychological intervention protocol to help Chinese BC survivors improve their quality of life, and could be helpful in further developing affordable disease management plans for patients of other chronic diseases.
Components made from shape memory alloys (SMAs) such as nitinol often fail from stress concentrations and defects such as notches and cracks.
It is shown here for the first time that these failures can be predicted using the theory of critical distances (TCDs), a method which has previously been used to study fracture and fatigue in other materials.
The TCD uses the stress at a certain distance ahead of the notch to predict the failure of the material due to the stress concentration.
The critical distance is believed to be a material property which is related to the microstructure of the material. The TCD is simply applied to a linear model of the material without the need to model the complication of its non-linear behaviour.
The non-linear behaviour of the material at fracture is represented in the critical stress.
The effect of notches and short cracks on the fracture of SMA NiTi was studied by analysing experimental data from the literature.
Using a finite element model with elastic material behaviour, it is shown that the TCD can predict the effect of crack length and notch geometry on the critical stress and stress intensity for fracture, with prediction errors of less than 5%.
The value of the critical distance obtained for this material was L = 90 μm; this may be related to its grain size.
The effects of short cracks on stress intensity were studied.
It was shown that the same value of the critical distance (L = 90 μm) could estimate the experimental data for both notches and short cracks.
Implant failure due to poor integration of the implant with the surrounding biomaterial is a common problem in various orthopedic and orthodontic surgeries.
Implant fixation mostly depends upon the implant surface topography.
Micron to nanosize circular-shaped groove architecture with adequate surface roughness can enhance the mechanical interlock and osseointegration of an implant with the host tissue and solve its poor fixation problem.
Such groove architecture can be created on a titanium (Ti) alloy implant by laser peening treatment.
Laser peening produces deep, residual compressive stresses in the surfaces of metal parts, delivering increased fatigue life and damage tolerance.
The scientific novelty of this study is the controlled deposition of circular-shaped rough spot groove using laser peening technique and understanding the effect of the treatment techniques for improving the implant surface properties.
The hypothesis of this study was that implant surface grooves created by controlled laser peen treatment can improve the mechanical and biological responses of the implant with the adjoining biomaterial. The objective of this study was to measure how the controlled laser-peened groove architecture on Ti influences its osteoblast cell functions and bonding strength with bone cement.
This study determined the surface roughness and morphology of the peen-treated Ti.
In addition, this study compared the osteoblast cell functions (adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation) between control and peen-treated Ti samples.
Finally, this study measured the fracture strength between each kind of Ti samples and bone cement under static loading.
This study found that laser peen treatment on Ti significantly changed the surface architecture of the Ti, which led to enhanced osteoblast cell adhesion and differentiation on Ti implants and fracture strength of Ti-bone cement interfaces compared with values of untreated Ti samples.
Therefore, the laser peen treatment method has the potential to improve the biomechanical functions of Ti implants.
Titanium alloy materials are used in a variety of engineering applications in the aerospace, aircraft, electronics, and shipbuilding industries, and due to the continuous improvement of the contemporary age, surface integrity needs to be improved for engineering applications.
Belt grinding parameters and levels directly affect the surface integrity of titanium alloys (TC4), which further affects the fatigue life of the titanium alloys during service.
In order to investigate the surface integrity of titanium alloys at different roughness levels, the surfaces were repeatedly ground with the same type and different models of abrasive belts.
The results showed that at roughness Ra levels of 0.4 μm to 0.2 μm, the compressive residual stresses decreased with increasing linear velocity and there were problems with large surface morphological defects.
At the roughness Ra of 0.2 μm or less, grinding improves the surface morphology, the compressive residual stress increases with increasing feed rate, and the surface hardness decreases with increasing linear velocity.
In addition, the research facilitates the engineering of grinding parameters and levels that affect surface integrity under different roughness conditions, providing a theoretical basis and practical reference.
Genetic variations of breast cancer survivors (BCS) may contribute to level of residual symptoms, such as depression, stress, fatigue, and cognitive impairment.
The objective of this study was to investigate whether particular single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) moderated symptom improvement resulting from the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction for Breast Cancer (MBSR[BC]) program.
An overarching goal of personalized medicine is to identify individuals as risk for disease and tailor interventions based on genetic profiles of patients with diseases including cancer.
BCS were recruited from Moffitt Cancer Center and University of South Florida's Breast Health Program and were randomized to either the 6-week MBSR(BC) program (n = 92) or Usual Care (n = 93).
Measures of symptoms, demographic, and clinical history data were attained at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks.
A total of 10 SNPs from eight genes known to be related to these symptoms were studied using genomic DNA extracted from blood.
Our results were examined for effect sizes, consistency, and statistical significance (p < .05).
Three SNPs (rs4680 in COMT, rs6314 in HTR2A, and rs429358 in APOE) emerged as having the strongest (though relatively weak) and most consistent effects in moderating the impact of the MBSR program on symptom outcomes.
Although effects were generally weak, with only one effect withstanding multiple comparisons correction for statistical significance, this translational behavioral research may help start the identification of genetic profiles that moderate the impact of MBSR(BC).
The ultimate goal of this study is the development of personalized treatment programs tailored to the genetic profile of each patient.
In the present article, the effect of the specimen geometry and the sample notch was studied on the high cycle fatigue lifetime and fracture behavior of the aluminum-based nanocomposite, which was registered as a patent in Iran (Patent No. 99513, 2020).
For such an objective, rotary fully-reversed bending fatigue tests were performed on smooth and notched specimens, with the frequency of 100 Hz.
Then, simulated results using the MSC Fatigue software were calculated and compared to the fatigue lifetime in the experiments for validation.
Moreover, scanning electron microscopy was utilized to observe the fracture surface of failed samples after testing.
Obtained results indicated that the fatigue lifetime increased by enhancing the sample diameter.
However, the fatigue lifetime reduced when the stress concentration factor changed from 1.0 to 2.9.
All samples with three geometries had a brittle fracture due to cleavage and quasicleavage marks on the fracture surface.
This letter reports on the application of the non-collinear mixing technique to the ultrasonic measurement of material nonlinearity to assess plasticity and fatigue damage.
Non-collinear mixing is potentially more attractive for assessing material state than other nonlinear ultrasonic techniques because system nonlinearities can be both independently measured and largely eliminated.
Here, measurements made on a sample after plastic deformation and on a sample subjected to low-cycle fatigue show that the non-collinear technique is indeed capable of measuring changes in both, and is therefore a viable inspection technique for these types of material degradation.
Many nontraumatic fractures seen clinically in patients with metabolic bone disorders or on antiresorptive treatment show an increased incidence of microdamage accumulation and impaired intracortical remodeling.
However, the lack of basal remodeling and Haversian bone in rodents limits their translatability in studying bone damage repair mechanisms.
The work presented here demonstrates the development of the forelimb loading model in rabbits, the smallest mammal with intracortical Haversian remodeling.
The forelimbs of post-mortem female New Zealand white rabbits were loaded in axial end compression to determine their basic monotonic and fatigue properties.
Following time zero characterization, stress fractures were created in vivo and animals were allowed to recover for a period of two to five weeks.
The rabbit forelimb when loaded in axial compression demonstrates a consistent mid-diaphyseal fracture location characterized by a local mixed compression-bending loading environment.
Forelimb apparent stiffness, when fatigue loaded, demonstrates a progressive increase until macrocrack formation, at which time apparent stiffness rapidly declines until failure.
Stress fractures in the rabbit ulna display robust periosteal expansion and woven bone formation two weeks following fracture.
Subsequent healing at five weeks post-fracture is marked by woven bone densification, resorption and intracortical remodeling along the stress fracture line.
The rabbit forelimb fatigue model is a promising new platform by which bone׳s response to damage may be studied.
Severe plastic deformation (SPD) has recently been advanced as the main process for fabricating bulk ultrafine grained or nanocrystalline metallic materials, which present much higher strength and better bio-compatibility than coarse-grained counterparts.
Medical devices, such as aneurysm clips and dental implants, require high mechanical and biological performance (e.g., stiffness, yield strength, fatigue resistance, and bio-compatibility).
These requirements match well the characteristics of SPD-processed materials.
Typical aneurysm clips are made of a commercial Ti-6Al-4V alloy, which has higher yield strength than Ti.
In this work, Ti and Ti-6Al-4V workpieces were processed by high-pressure torsion (HPT) to enhance their mechanical properties.
Tensile tests and hardness tests were performed to evaluate their mechanical properties, and their microstructure was investigated.
The hardness and yield stress of the HPT-processed Ti are comparable to those of the initial Ti-6Al-4V due to significantly refined microstructure.
Finite element analyses for evaluating the opening performance of a specific geometry of the YASARGIL aneurysm clip were carried out using mechanical properties of the initial and HPT-processed Ti and Ti-6Al-4V.
These results indicate that SPD-processed Ti could be a good candidate to substitute for Ti-6Al-4V in aneurysm clips.
Commercially pure titanium and titanium alloys are often preferred in biomedical applications due to their high biocompatibility behavior.
However, the inadequate wear, fatigue and corrosion resistance of titanium alloys limit their use as a biomaterial in the human body.
Furthermore, these alloys may contain such as aluminum and vanadium elements that can damage the nervous system.
The aim of this in vitro study was to evaluate the influence of lubrication conditions on the two-body wear behavior of pure titanium, Ti-2.5Si-5Zr, Ti-5Si-5Zr, and Ti-6Al-4V using dual-axis computer-controlled wear simulator device.
The mean wear volume loss of all test specimens after the two-body wear test procedures were determined to use a non-contact 3D profilometer.
The alloys hardness and microstructures were evaluated using the Vickers indention method, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis.
The hardness of Ti-6Al-4V titanium alloy material was significantly greater than the other alloy materials and cp-Ti.
The mean wear volume loss of Ti-5Si-5Zr test specimens was lower than the other test group specimens irrespective of lubrication conditions.
It was concluded, the two-body wear resistance of the alloy formed with the addition of silica to the pure titanium is increased after both wear test procedures.
However, for the test materials in this study considered, correlations between the two-body wear resistance and hardness were found to be insignificant.
We investigate a model for fatigue crack growth in which damage accumulation is assumed to follow a power law of the local stress amplitude, a form that can be generically justified on the grounds of the approximately self-similar aspect of microcrack distributions.
Our aim is to determine the relation between model ingredients and the Paris exponent governing subcritical crack-growth dynamics at the macroscopic scale, starting from a single small notch propagating along a fixed line.
By a series of analytical and numerical calculations, we show that, in the absence of disorder, there is a critical damage-accumulation exponent γ, namely γ_{c}=2, separating two distinct regimes of behavior for the Paris exponent m.
For γ>γ_{c}, the Paris exponent is shown to assume the value m=γ, a result that proves robust against the separate introduction of various modifying ingredients.
Explicitly, we deal here with (i) the requirement of a minimum stress for damage to occur, (ii) the presence of disorder in local damage thresholds, and (iii) the possibility of crack healing.
On the other hand, in the regime γ<γ_{c}, the Paris exponent is seen to be sensitive to the different ingredients added to the model, with rapid healing or a high minimum stress for damage leading to m=2 for all γ<γ_{c}, in contrast with the linear dependence m=6-2γ observed for very long characteristic healing times in the absence of a minimum stress for damage.
Upon the introduction of disorder on the local fatigue thresholds, which leads to the possible appearance of multiple cracks along the propagation line, the Paris exponent tends to m≈4 for γ≲2 while retaining the behavior m=γ for γ≳4.
In this study we investigate relationships between the nanoscale structure of collagen fibrils and the macroscale functional response of collagenous tissues.
To do so, we study two functionally distinct classes of tendons, positional tendons and energy storing tendons, using a bovine forelimb model.
Molecular-level assessment using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), functional crosslink assessment using hydrothermal isometric tension (HIT) analysis, and ultrastructural assessment using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to study undamaged, ruptured, and cyclically loaded samples from the two tendon types.
HIT indicated differences in both crosslink type and crosslink density, with flexor tendons having more thermally stable crosslinks than the extensor tendons (higher TFmax of >90 vs. 75.1±2.7°C), and greater total crosslink density than the extensor tendons (higher t1/2 of 11.5±1.9 vs. 3.5±1.0h after NaBH4 treatment).
Despite having a lower crosslink density than flexor tendons, extensor tendons were significantly stronger (37.6±8.1 vs. 23.1±7.7MPa) and tougher (14.3±3.6 vs. 6.8±3.4MJ/m(3)).
SEM showed that collagen fibrils in the tougher, stronger extensor tendons were able to undergo remarkable levels of plastic deformation in the form of discrete plasticity, while those in the flexor tendons were not able to plastically deform.
When cyclically loaded, collagen fibrils in extensor tendons accumulated fatigue damage rapidly in the form of kink bands, while those in flexor tendons did not accumulate significant fatigue damage.
The results demonstrate that collagen fibrils in functionally distinct tendons respond differently to mechanical loading, and suggests that fibrillar collagens may be subject to a strength vs. fatigue resistance tradeoff.
Collagen fibrils-nanoscale biological cables-are the fundamental load-bearing elements of all structural human tissues.
While all collagen fibrils share common features, such as being composed of a precise quarter-staggered polymeric arrangement of triple-helical collagen molecules, their structure can vary significantly between tissue types, and even between different anatomical structures of the same tissue type.
To understand normal function, homeostasis, and disease of collagenous tissues requires detailed knowledge of collagen fibril structure-function.
Using anatomically proximate but structurally distinct tendons, we show that collagen fibrils in functionally distinct tendons have differing susceptibilities to damage under both tensile overload and cyclic fatigue loading.
Our results suggest that the structure of collagen fibrils may lead to a strength versus fatigue resistance tradeoff, where high strength is gained at the expense of fatigue resistance, and vice versa.
Emerging literature suggests that quality of life (QOL) after bone marrow transplantation is relatively good but is accompanied in some patients by a variety of residual difficulties.
The studies supporting this finding, however, have been somewhat limited in scale, scope, design, and analysis.
We comprehensively measured changes in multidimensional QOL in a 4-year longitudinal follow-up of 415 adult patients who received hematopoietic stem cell transplants at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center.
Questionnaire packets containing 271 items were mailed annually posttransplantation to patients' homes.
Standard methods of analysis yielded conditional estimates depending on compliance and survival, whereas new, likelihood-based methods generated unconditional estimates applicable to the full intent-to-treat population.
Typical QOL levels generally remained high over the entire study period.
Most QOL functioning significantly improved over 4 years, with the remainder showing no important decrement.
Although isolated problem areas, such as sexual dissatisfaction, did emerge, the level of dysfunction for most physical and psychological scales remained below 30% of scale maxima.
Broadly similar results were obtained for conditional estimation, which may contain an optimistic bias, and for unconditional estimation, which largely avoids the bias.
Because concurrence was obtained between the 2 types of estimation, we conclude that most patients really do experience good levels of QOL in the 4 years after transplantation.
Although some problems can be anticipated, typical patients can look forward to a QOL after transplantation that is broadly comparable to that of the normal population.
One major problem using small diameter nails in the treatment of tibial fractures is the high rate of fatigue fractures of the locking screws.
The objective of this study was to develop a mathematical model for analysis of the stress concentration factor as well as edge fibre stress.
This would allow an analysis of the stress peaks caused by the thread of the screw as well as showing ways to increase the fatigue limits of the screws.
The main consideration was the fact that a thread can be calculated like a relief notch used in theory of strength to relieve the strain on building materials.
The transformation from one notch to multiple notches obviously reduces the stress concentration factor.
To improve the fatigue limit of locking screws one has to modify the stress concentration factor or the edge fibre stress on the implant.
Absence of a thread at the location where the screw contacts the nail's aperture (where the main load is transmitted to the screw and where the screw therefore usually tends to break) may double the fatigue strength and fatigue limit by avoiding the negative notch effect of the screw's thread.
If this option is not possible one has to consider that the optimal threaded screw should have a minimal edge distance, a high notch radius and a minimal edge depth.
Parkinson's disease (PD), the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, affects over 7.5 million individuals worldwide and imposes a substantial financial burden.
Exercise (EXE) has demonstrated efficacy in improving motor symptoms of PD; however, its application is limited by motor symptoms such as bradykinesia, rigidity, gait instability, and fatigue, which reduce patient tolerance and adherence.
This highlights the need for accessible, non-invasive alternatives with similar efficacy.
Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC), a low-cost, non-invasive intervention, has shown neuroprotective effects in stroke and cognitive impairment and may offer comparable benefits without these limitations.
This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy of RIC versus EXE in a PD mouse model.
PD was induced in mice using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) injections (30 mg/kg) for 5 days.
Mice were assigned to four groups: Control, PD, EXE, and RIC.
EXE involved treadmill training (30 mins, twice a day for 14 days), while RIC consisted of repeated limb ischemia-reperfusion cycles (3 occlusion-reperfusion cycles, for 14 days).
Motor performance was assessed using rota-rod and open field tests.
Neuroinflammatory markers, microglial activation, and oxidative stress were analyzed via immunofluorescence, ELISA, and Western blot.
Both RIC and EXE significantly improved motor function and attenuated dopaminergic neurodegeneration.
These interventions reduced α-synuclein accumulation and restored tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression.
Additionally, both interventions suppressed microglial activation, decreased iNOS/Iba-1 and IL-1β/Iba-1 expression, and downregulated the TLR4/NF-κB pathway and associated proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α).
RIC and EXE also alleviated NOX-driven oxidative stress.
RIC and EXE provide comparable neuroprotective effects in PD by suppressing TLR4-mediated neuroinflammation and oxidative damage.
Given its non-invasive, low-cost nature and ease of administration, RIC may represent a promising rehabilitation strategy for patients with limited access to or tolerance for exercise-based therapies.
Selective laser melting (SLM) offers a novel approach for manufacturing intricate structures, broadening the application of titanium alloy parts in the aerospace industry.
After the build period, heat treatments of annealing (AT) and hot isostatic pressing (HIP) are often implemented, but a comparison of their mechanical performances based on the specimen orientation is still lacking.
In this study, horizontally and vertically built Ti6Al4V SLM specimens that underwent the aforementioned treatments, together with their microstructural and defect characteristics, were, respectively, investigated using metallography and X-ray imaging.
The mechanical properties and failure mechanism, via fracture analysis, were obtained.
The critical factors influencing the mechanical properties and the correlation of the fatigue lives and failure origins were also estimated.
The results demonstrate that the mechanical performances were determined by the
The accumulated plastic strain energy density at a dangerous point is studied to estimate the low cycle fatigue life that is composed of fatigue initiation life and fatigue crack propagation life.
The modified Ramberg-Osgood constitutive relation is applied to characterize the stress-strain relationship of the strain-hardening material. The plastic strain energy density under uni-axial tension and cyclic load are derived, which are used as threshold and reference values, respectively.
Then, a framework to assess the lives of fatigue initiation and fatigue crack propagation by accumulated plastic strain energy density is proposed.
Finally, this method is applied to two types of aluminum alloy, LC9 and LY12 for low-cycle fatigue, and agreed well with the experiments.
Young female athletes are at least two times more likely to suffer a non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury than males, and one and a half times more likely to have a recurrent injury.
Primary factors contributing to this disparity are less stiff and weaker ACLs, and greater knee laxity than males.
Also, some evidence suggests females may exhibit a muted response to repetitive, high-intensity activity compared to males.
Here, we test the hypothesis that female ACLs would accumulate more extracellular matrix (ECM) damage and show a delayed reparative response compared to males under equivalent submaximal fatigue loading.
Using an adolescent mouse model (C57BL/6J), ACLs were cyclically loaded to induce an acute submaximal overuse injury (n = 20 per sex).
ECM damage was assessed via immunofluorescence, apoptotic activity via immunohistochemistry, and gene expression changes through RNA-sequencing at 24 and 72 h post-injury.
Female ACLs showed significantly greater collagen denaturation than males (P = 0.05), with no significant difference in apoptosis.
Transcriptomic analyses suggest sex-specific healing strategies.
Females followed a slower, more regulated reparative response, whereas males exhibited a more aggressive repair approach emphasizing mitosis, cell proliferation and migration.
These findings may explain higher female ACL failure rates as greater matrix damage combined with a slower repair response could lead to injury propagation if reloading occurs prematurely.
By contrast, the faster male response might reduce recurrence risk but increase fibrosis potential. If confirmed further, these potential physiological differences may require the implementation of sex-specific strategies for training and recovery regimens to prevent overuse injuries and optimize healing outcomes in young athletes.
KEY POINTS: Females are at least twice as likely to suffer an anterior cruciate ligament injury (ACL) relative to males when participating in the same, or comparable sport.
Sex differences in ACL structure and function are primary factors for increased female injury risk.
Here, we show that the female mouse ACL accrues more collagen matrix damage than males under comparable fatigue loads.
Additionally, female mice demonstrated a slower, more regulated ACL reparative response, while male mice exhibited a more aggressive repair approach emphasizing mitosis, cell proliferation and migration.
These results, if translatable, may in part explain the sex-disparity in ACL failure rates with greater matrix damage and a slower repair response increasing the risk of reinjury, and a faster male response potentially reducing injury recurrence risk with further physical activity.
Wire ropes undergo a fretting fatigue condition when subjected to axial and bending loads.
The fretting behavior of wires are classified as line contact and trellis point of contact.
The experimental study on the fatigue of wire ropes indicates that most of the failure occurs due to high localized stresses at trellis point of contact.
A continuum damage mechanics approach was previously proposed to estimate the fatigue life estimation of wire ropes.
The approach majorly depends on the high value of localized stresses as well as the micro-slippage occurs at the contact region.
Finite element approach has been used to study radial and axial distribution of stresses and displacement in order to clearly understand the evolution of stresses and existence of relative displacements between neighboring wires under various loading and frictional conditions.
The relative movements of contacting wires are more when friction is not considered.
In the presence of friction, the relative movement occurs at the boundaries of the contact region.
The location of microslip in the presence of friction is backed by the experimental observation stating the crack is initiated at or the outer boundary of the contact spot.
The existence of slip is due to different displacement of outer and central wires.
Cyclic response and fatigue behavior are sensitive to the microstructure of material induced by heat treatment.
In this paper, three sets of high-temperature superalloy Inconel 718 with different heat treatment, namely annealed, aged, and directly aged high quality (DAHQ), are compared.
Difference in grain size distribution, phase, and precipitate, etc., were investigated using an optical camera and scanning electron microscopy.
Yield and ultimate strength were found to increase obviously after aging heat treatment.
Self-heating phenomenon at 20 kHz was attenuated as grain size decreased.
There was a transition from cyclic hardening to softening.
Very-high cycle fatigue (VHCF) behavior of Inconel 718 was tested using an ultrasonic fatigue device.
Crack initiation duration occupied greater than 99% of the total fatigue life.
It concluded that average grain size influences VHCF strength and crack initiation mechanism, and that self-heating phenomenon is not a decisive factor on VHCF strength for Inconel 718.
Highly cross-linked formulations of ultrahigh-molecular-weight polyethylene (XLPE) offer exceptional wear resistance for total joint arthroplasty but are offset with a reduction in postyield and fatigue fracture properties in comparison to conventional ultrahigh-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE).
Oxidation resistance is also an important property for the longevity of total joint replacements (TJRs) as formulations of UHMWPE or XLPE utilizing radiation methods are susceptible to free radical generation and subsequent embrittlement.
The balance of oxidation, wear, and fracture properties is an enduring concern for orthopedic polymers used as the bearing surface in total joint arthroplasty.
Optimization of material properties is further challenged in designs that make use of locking mechanisms, notches, or other stress concentrations that can render the polymer susceptible to fracture due to elevated local stresses.
Clinical complications involving impingements, dislocations, or other biomechanical overloads can exacerbate stresses and negate benefits of improved wear resistance provided by XLPE.
This work examines trade-offs that factor into the use of XLPE in TJR implants.
The low-cycle fatigue behavior of the VT3-1 titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-3Mo-2Cr alloy) under loading with a triangular and trapezoidal shape of cycle waveform was studied on round specimens prepared from forged compressor disks of a gas turbine engine.
The filament type structure after forging has alternating filaments with the ductile and quasi-brittle state of the metal as a result of the wave process of plastic deformation during the metal forging process.
The crack propagation, regardless of the cyclic waveform shape, occurs by the crack meso-tunneling mechanism: initially, the cracks propagate along the filaments by a quasi-brittle mechanism with the formation of a facetted pattern relief on the fracture surface reflecting the two-phase structure of the titanium alloy, and then, the bridge between the meso-tunnels is fractured with the formation of fatigue striations.
The part of the crack growth duration
The relation between deformation inhomogeneity and low-cycle-fatigue failure of T2 pure copper and the nickel-based superalloy GH4169 under symmetric tension-compression cyclic strain loading is investigated by using a polycrystal representative volume element (RVE) as the material model.
The anisotropic behavior of grains and the strain fields are calculated by crystal plasticity, taking the Bauschinger effect into account to track the process of strain cycles of metals, and the Shannon's differential entropies of both distributions of the strain in the loading direction and the first principal strain are employed at the tension peak of the cycles as measuring parameters of strain inhomogeneity.
Both parameters are found to increase in value with increments in the number of cycles and they have critical values for predicting the material's fatigue failure.
Compared to the fatigue test data, it is verified that both parameters measured by Shannon's differential entropies can be used as fatigue indicating parameters (FIPs) to predict the low cycle fatigue life of metal.
A simple algorithm is developed and implemented to eliminate ambiguities, in both statistical analyses of orientation data (e.g., orientation averaging) and electron backscattered diffraction (EBSD) orientation map visualization, caused by symmetrically equivalent orientations and the wrap-around or umklapp effect.
Using crystal symmetry operators and the lowest Euclidian-distance criterion, the orientation of each pixel within a grain is redefined.
An advantage of this approach is demonstrated for direct determination of the representative orientation of a grain within an EBSD map by mean, median, or quaternion-based averaging methods that can be further used within analyses or visualization of misorientation or geometrically necessary dislocation (GND) density.
If one also considers the lattice curvature tensor, five components of the dislocation density tensor-corresponding to a part of the GND content-may be inferred.
The methodology developed is illustrated using EBSD orientation data obtained from the fatigue crack-tips/wakes in aerospace aluminum alloys 2024-T351 and 7050-T7451.
An evaluation method is proposed for determining the full fatigue life of aluminum alloy cruciform joint, including the crack initiation and propagation with welding residual stress.
The results of simulations have shown that the boundary between the initiation and propagation stage is not constant, but a variable value.
The residual stress leads to a significant reduction in both stages, which is more severe on initiation.
With considering residual stress, the ratio of crack initiation to total life is below 7%.
The effect of residual stress varies with external loading; when external load is lower, the residual stress has a greater effect.
Pitting corrosion is one of the most common forms of localized corrosion.
Corrosion pit results in a stress concentration and fatigue cracks usually initiate and propagate from these corrosion pits.
Aging structures may fracture when the fatigue crack reaches a critical size.
This paper experimentally simulates the effects of pitting morphologies on the static and fatigue behavior of steel bars.
Four artificial notch shapes are considered: radial ellipse, axial ellipse, triangle and length-variable triangle.
Each shape notch includes six sizes to simulate a variety of pitting corrosion morphologies.
The stress-strain curves of steel bars with different notch shape and depth are obtained based on static tensile testing, and the stress concentration coefficients for various conditions are determined.
It was determined that the triangular notch has the highest stress concentration coefficient, followed by length-variable triangle, radial ellipse and axial ellipse shaped notches.
Subsequently, the effects of notch depth and notch aspect ratios on the fatigue life under three stress levels are investigated by fatigue testing, and the equations for stress range-fatigue life-notch depth are obtained.
Several conclusions are drawn based on the proposed study.
The established relationships provide an experimental reference for evaluating the fatigue life of concrete bridges.
The relationship between strain fatigue life and evolution of meso-deformation inhomogeneity was studied, through the cyclic process of numerical simulation of crystal plasticity compared with the fatigue test of steel hot-rolled ribbed-steel bar 400 (HRB400).
The statistical characterization parameters at grain level, including the standard deviation of the dot product of longitudinal stress and strain, the product of the macro stress and the standard deviation of the longitudinal strain, and the product of the macro stress ratio and the standard deviation of the longitudinal strain, were proposed and respectively applied to measure the meso-deformation inhomogeneity of materials.
These parameters take the effect of peak stress into account, distinct from the pure strain statistical parameters.
The numerical results demonstrate that the low-cycle fatigue life curves of materials are predictable using the new parameters as FIPs (fatigue indicator parameters), and the predictions are more rational than by utilizing the FIPs without considering the peak stress effect.
SiC particle reinforced aluminum alloy has a wide application in the aerospace industries.
In this study, laser shock peening (LSP), an advanced surface modification technique, was employed for SiCp/2009Al composite to reveal its microstructure, microhardness and residual stress evolution.
After peening, high densities of dislocations were induced in the aluminum substrate, and stacking faults were introduced into the SiC particle.
The microhardness was increased from 155-170 HV to 170-185 HV, with an affected depth of more than 1.5 mm. Compressive residual stresses of more than 200 MPa were introduced.
The three-point bending fatigue of the base material, laser peened and milled after laser peened specimens with artificial crack notch fabricated by a femtosecond laser was investigated.
The average fatigue lives of laser peened and milled after laser peened specimens were increased by up to 10.60 and 2.66 times, compared with the base material. This combined fundamental and application-based research seeks to comprehensively explore the applicability of LSP on metal matrix composite.
The recent development of metallic glass-matrix composites represents a particular milestone in engineering materials for structural applications owing to their remarkable combination of strength and toughness.
However, metallic glasses are highly susceptible to cyclic fatigue damage, and previous attempts to solve this problem have been largely disappointing.
Here, we propose and demonstrate a microstructural design strategy to overcome this limitation by matching the microstructural length scales (of the second phase) to mechanical crack-length scales.
Specifically, semisolid processing is used to optimize the volume fraction, morphology, and size of second-phase dendrites to confine any initial deformation (shear banding) to the glassy regions separating dendrite arms having length scales of approximately 2 mum, i.e., to less than the critical crack size for failure.
Confinement of the damage to such interdendritic regions results in enhancement of fatigue lifetimes and increases the fatigue limit by an order of magnitude, making these "designed" composites as resistant to fatigue damage as high-strength steels and aluminum alloys.
These design strategies can be universally applied to any other metallic glass systems.
Due to variations in chemical composition and production processes, homonymous austenitic stainless steels can differ significantly regarding their initial microstructure, metastability, and thus, their fatigue behavior.
Microstructural investigations and fatigue tests have been performed in order to evaluate this aspect.
Three different batches and production forms of nominally one type of steel AISI 347 were investigated under monotonic tensile tests and cyclic loading under total strain and stress control in low and high cycle fatigue regimes, respectively.
The deformation induced α'-martensite formation was investigated globally by means of in situ magnetic measurements and locally using optical light microscopy of color etching of micrographs.
The investigation showed that the chemical composition and the different production processes influence the material behavior.
In fatigue tests, a higher metastability and thus a higher level of deformation induced α'-martensite pronounced cyclic hardening, resulting in significantly greater endurable stresses in total strain-controlled tests and an increase in fatigue life in stress-controlled tests.
For applications of non-destructive-testing, detailed knowledge of a component's metastability is required.
In less metastable batches and for lower stress levels, α'-martensite primarily formed at the plasticization zone of a crack.
Furthermore, the formation and nucleation points of α'-martensite were highly dependent on grain size and the presence of δ-ferrite.
This study provides valuable insights into the different material behavior of three different batches with the same designation, i.e., AISI 347, due to different manufacturing processes and differences in the chemical composition, metastability, and microstructure.
Corrosive fatigue failure of submarine pipelines is very common because the pipeline is immersed in a sea environment.
In Bohai sea, many old pipelines are made of API 5L X56 steel materials, and it is necessary to provide an accurate method for predicting the residual life of these pipelines.
As Paris law has been proven to be reliable in predicting the fatigue crack growth in metal materials, the two constants in Paris law for API 5L X56 steel materials are obtained by using a new proposed shape factor based on the analysis of experimental data measured from fatigue tests on compact tension specimens immersed in the water of Bohai sea.
The results of the newly proposed shape factor show that, for a given stress intensity factor range (ΔK), the fatigue crack growth rate (
To provide insights into a dose-response relationship between training and time-trial performance, as assessed in both a "fresh" and a "fatigued" state (durability), including proposed underlying factors for durability: gross efficiency and substrate oxidation (FatOx and CarbOx).
Ten male semiprofessional cyclists underwent a performance test in both "fresh" and "fatigued" state (after 38.6 [4.6] kJ·kg-1) before and after an 8-week training period, containing the measurement of gross efficiency, FatOx, and CarbOx at submaximal intensity and maximal time trials of 1 (PO1) and 10 minutes (PO10).
Relationships were assessed with the session rating of perceived exertion, kilojoules spent, Lucia training impulse, Training Stress Score, polarization index, and time spent in 3 zones in the intervening period.
No significant relationship was found between higher training load and performance on PO1 and PO10, with a large variation between assessed training-load measures and individual participants.
However, CarbOx showed a strong correlation with training volume in the "fresh" state and with time spent below first-lactate-threshold intensity in the "fatigued" state.
Also, the relationship between training load and change in performance between tests showed different trends for "fresh" compared with "fatigued" state, especially for FatOx and CarbOx.
The fact that no clear relationships between dose (training) and response (time-trial performance) were shown in this study indicates that a single load measure is not able to predict performance improvements after an 8-week training period.
However, the current study shows that the same training can have a different effect on "fresh" versus "fatigued" performance, having implications for the design of training plans.
The long term success of total joint replacement can be limited by fatigue failure of the acrylic cement and the resulting disruption of the bone-cement interface.
The incidence of such problems may be diminished by reduction of the fatigue notch factor in the cement, so that stress concentrations are avoided and the fatigue crack initiation time maximized.
This study describes a method for numerical shape optimization whereby the finite element method is used to determine an optimal shape for the femoral stem of a hip prosthesis in order to minimize the fatigue notch factor in the cement layer and at interfaces with the bone and stem.
A two-dimensional model of the proximal end of a femur fitted with a total hip prosthesis was used which was equivalent to a simplified three-dimensional axisymmetric model.
Software was developed to calculate the fatigue notch factor in the cement along the cement/stem and cement/bone interfaces and in the proximal bone.
The fatigue notch factor in the cement at the cement/stem interface was then minimized using the ANSYS finite element program while constraining the fatigue notch factor at the cement/bone interface at or below its initial level and maintaining levels of stress in the proximal bone to prevent stress shielding.
The results were compared with those from other optimization studies.
Aluminium bronzes are widely used in various industries because of their unique properties, a combination of high strength, wear resistance, and corrosion resistance in aggressive environments, including seawater.
In this study, the subject of comprehensive experimental research was Cu-10Al-5Fe iron-aluminium bronze (IAB) with β-transformation, received in the form of hot-rolled bars.
The effects of different heat treatments (HT) and severe surface plastic deformation (SPD), conducted by diamond burnishing (DB) on the microstructure, surface integrity (SI), mechanical properties, low- and mega-cycle fatigue strength, and dry sliding wear resistance, were determined.
Based on quantitative indicators, the applied heat treatments in combination with severe SPD were compared.
Thus, the integral efficiency of the heat treatments was evaluated, and the heat treatments were correlated with the resulting properties and operational behaviour of Cu-10Al-5Fe IAB.
For example, if the component is designed for rotational bending conditions, the combination of quenching at 920 °C in water, subsequent tempering at 300 °C for three hours, and DB provides maximum fatigue strength in both low-cycle and mega-cycle fatigue applications.
TiB-reinforced Ti-3Al-2.5V matrix composites, in which TiB whiskers are oriented parallel to the direction of heat extrusion, were fabricated via mechanical alloying and hot isostatic pressing (HIP).
To investigate the near-threshold fatigue crack propagation in TiB-reinforced Ti-3Al-2.5V matrix composites, stress intensity factor
The material bone has attracted the attention of material scientists due to its fracture resistance and ability to self-repair.
A mechanoregulated exchange of damaged bone using newly synthesized material avoids the accumulation of fatigue damage.
This remodeling process is also the basis for structural adaptation to common loading conditions, thereby reducing the probability of material failure.
In the case of fracture, an initial step of tissue formation is followed by a mechanobiological controlled restoration of the pre-fracture state.
The present perspective focuses on these mechanobiological aspects of bone remodeling and healing.
Specifically, the role of the control function is considered, which describes mechanoregulation as a link between mechanical stimulation and the local response of the material through changes in structure or material properties.
Mechanical forces propagate over large distances leading to a complex non-local feedback between mechanical stimulation and material response.
To better understand such phenomena, computer models are often employed.
As expected from control theory, negative and positive feedback loops lead to entirely different time evolutions, corresponding to stable and unstable states of the material system.
After some background information about bone remodeling and healing, we describe a few representative models, the corresponding control functions, and their consequences.
The results are then discussed with respect to the potential design of synthetic materials with specific self-repair properties.
The fatigue behavior of a filled non-crystallizing elastomer was investigated on axisymmetric dumbbell specimens.
By plotting relevant Wöhler curves, a power law behavior was found.
In addition, temperature increases due to heat build-up were monitored.
In order to distinguish between initiation and crack growth regimes, hysteresis curves, secant and dynamic moduli, dissipated and stored energies, and normalized minimum and maximum forces were analyzed.
Even though indications related to material damaging were observed, a clear trend to recognize the initiation was not evident.
Further details were revealed by considering a fracture mechanics.
The analysis of the fracture surfaces evidenced the presence of three regions, associated to initiation, fatigue striation, and catastrophic failure.
Additional fatigue tests were performed with samples in which a radial notch was introduced.
This resulted in a reduction in lifetime by four orders of magnitude; nevertheless, the fracture surfaces revealed similar failure mechanisms.
A fracture mechanics approach, which considered the effect of temperature, was adopted to calculate the critical defect size for fatigue, which was found to be approximately 9 μm. This value was then compared with the particle size distribution obtained through X-ray microcomputed tomography (μ-CT) of undamaged samples and it was found that the majority of the initial defects were indeed smaller than the calculated one.
Finally, the evaluation of J-integral for both unnotched and notched dumbbells enabled the assessment of a geometry-independent correlation with fatigue life.
Gamma titanium aluminides (γ-TiAl) display significantly improved high temperature mechanical properties over conventional titanium alloys.
Due to their low densities, these alloys are increasingly becoming strong candidates to replace nickel-base superalloys in future gas turbine aeroengine components.
To determine the safe operating life of such components, a good understanding of their creep properties is essential. Of particular importance to gas turbine component design is the ability to accurately predict the rate of accumulation of creep strain to ensure that excessive deformation does not occur during the component's service life and to quantify the effects of creep on fatigue life.
The theta (θ) projection technique is an illustrative example of a creep curve method which has, in this paper, been utilised to accurately represent the creep behaviour of the γ-TiAl alloy Ti -45Al-2Mn-2Nb.
Furthermore, a continuum damage approach based on the θ-projection method has also been used to represent tertiary creep damage and accurately predict creep rupture.
Endodontic rotary files are cutting instruments used to perform root canal procedures within a tooth interior.
Focusing on quantitative fractographic analysis increases necessary, clinical performance understanding of file separation failure.
This research employed controlled, dynamic testing to failure of commercial rotary files, analyzing the fractographic, forensic characteristics in relation to Weibull reliability determination, considering: (1) design analysis; (2) stress concentrations; (3) times to failure; (4) number of cycles to failure (NCF).
Ex vivo testing included three file designs, each having constant tip size (0.035 mm), taper (0.06 mm/mm), and length (25 mm).
Files were individually tested using an electric, torque-controlled handpiece, rotating within a standardized, simulated canal until fracture separation occurred.
Fractographic analysis, including critical measurements, was conducted using the scanning electron microscope (SEM) (PhenomProX, PhenomWorld, NL).
Weibull statistical analysis established reliability factors per design group.
Fractographic analysis identified separation fractures, processing inclusions, flexural-fatigue striations, and stress concentrations at flute pitches.
Calculated NCF median values (1277-EE; 899-VB; 713-PI) demonstrated significant statistical differences among groups (p < 0.001).
Separated apical fragments yielded statistically significant differences (p ≤ 0.05) for varying file design groups.
Weibull moduli among groups were statistically equivalent.
Fractographic analysis exposed a presence of multiple failure factors in addition to defect distribution, governing cyclic fatigue failure originating at stress concentration points irrespective of file design.
Fractographic analysis indicated that a change in file design, specifically at the working edges, in addition to improved surface finish, has the potential of reducing failures by lowering points of stress concentration and reducing fracture initiating surface cracks.
Although they are fortunately rare, implant fractures can cause significant problems for both clinicians and patients.
The authors present a light and scanning electron microscopic study of four fractured implants in two patients.
Both patients had parafunctional habits (bruxism), hypertrophic masticatory muscles, and wear of occlusal surfaces.
The scanning electron microscopic study of the fractured surfaces of all four implants showed the presence of fatigue striations.
Bending overload was probably created by a combination of parafunctional forces, bone resorption, posterior location of the implants, and implant diameter.
Intraoperative contouring of rods is a common procedure for spine surgeons to match the native curvature of the spine, but it may lead to premature weakening of the rod.
This study investigated the effect of different bending methods on rod fatigue performance.
Rod failure in the cervical spine is of clinical concern, particularly when spanning the cervicothoracic region and when considering corrective osteotomies for deformity correction and global spinal alignment.
Finite-element models were developed to simulate rod bending (3.5 mm D, 40 mm L) to achieve a 23° angle with 3 different bending methods: French single, multiple bending, and in situ bending.
Simulations were conducted in 4 steps: rod bending, rod spring back, residual stress relaxation, and F1717 mechanical test simulation.
French single bending resulted in the highest residual stress concentrations for both titanium (TiAlV) and cobalt chrome (CoCr) at 783 MPa and 507 MPa, respectively.
During F1717 test simulation, the French single bent rod had its highest tensile stress in the middle, with 917 MPa and 623 MPa, respectively, for TiAlV and CoCr, compared to in situ (580 MPa and 586 MPa for TiAlV and CoCr) and the French multiple bent rod (765 MPa and 619 MPa for TiAlV and CoCr).
The computational model found that CoCr rods made the construct least prone to deformation.
French single bend with TiAlV rods put the construct at highest risk of failure.
CoCr rods led to minimal physical changes in microstructure while showing evidence of flattening.
The advantage of 3D printing-that is, additive manufacturing (AM) of structural materials-has been severely compromised by their disappointing fatigue properties
The objective was to compare the metabolic responses of high-level national swimmers to threshold or polarised training. 22 swimmers (n = 12 males and 10 females) participated in a 28-week cross-over intervention study consisting of 2 × 6 period weeks of training.
Swimmers were assigned randomly to either training group for the first period: polarised (POL) (81% in energetic zone 1: blood lactate [La]b ≤ 2 mmol.L
Pereira, LA, Nakamura, FY, Moraes, JE, Kitamura, K, Ramos, SP, and Loturco, I.
Movement patterns and muscle damage during simulated rugby sevens matches in national team players.
J Strength Cond Res 32(12): 3465-3474, 2018-The aim of this study was to analyze the match performance (i.e., distance covered in different intensities), signs of muscle damage (assessed by means of creatine kinase [CK] activity and rate of force development [RFD]), and neuromuscular fatigue (using linear sprint and vertical jump performances) after 3 single-day simulated matches performed by rugby sevens players from the Brazilian National team.
Ten male rugby sevens players (25.2 ± 3.6 years; 88.7 ± 7.1 kg; 182.2 ± 6.3 cm) participated in this study.
On the day before the matches, the athletes performed a 40-m sprint, a vertical jump assessment, and a maximal isometric force test.
In the morning of the match day, blood samples were collected to analyze the CK activity.
Afterward, 3 simulated rugby sevens' matches were performed with 2-hour intermission periods.
The match performance (encompassing total distance and distance covered in different velocity ranges and body loads [BLs]) was obtained from global positioning system units.
The statistical analysis was performed using a mixed model approach and the effect sizes (ESs) of the differences.
The statistical significance level was set at p ≤ 0.05.
Players were capable of maintaining the match performance when comparing the first and last games.
Large (ES > 0.8) and significant (p ≤ 0.05) reductions were demonstrated in the total distance and BL when comparing the second with the first halves.
Decrements in the explosive force capacity (assessed by means of RFD) and the squat jump (SJ) were noticed (ES varying from 0.55 to 1.14; p ≤ 0.05).
The CK activity increased after the matches (ES = 1.29; p ≤ 0.05).
The rugby sevens players were able to maintain the physical performance across 3 successive matches simulating the first day of a tournament.
The augmented CK activity and the decreases in the SJ and RFD suggest that increased levels of muscle damage were experienced on the day after the matches.
Therefore, the technical staff are encouraged to implement recovery strategies and planned substitutions during multiday tournaments to reduce the impact of accumulated fatigue and muscle damage on subsequent match performance.
In addition, specific training strategies aimed at better simulating the match demands need to be implemented in the players' training routines.
In this investigation, the cyclic deformation behaviour of the binary titanium alloys Ti-6Al-4V and Ti-6Al-7Nb was characterized in axial stress-controlled constant amplitude and load increase tests as well as in rotating bending tests.
The influence of different clinically relevant surface treatments (polishing, corundum grit blasting, thermal and anodic oxidizing) on the fatigue behaviour was investigated.
All tests were realized in oxygen-saturated Ringer's solution.
The cyclic deformation behaviour was characterized by mechanical hysteresis measurements.
In addition, the change of the free corrosion potential and the corrosion current during testing in simulated physiological media indicated surface damages such as slip bands, intrusions and extrusions or finally microcracks.
Microstructural changes on the specimen surfaces were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Subchondral bone injuries often precede articular cartilage damage in osteoarthritis and are common in thoroughbred racehorses due to the accumulation of fatigue damage from high speed racing and training.
Thus, racehorses provide a model to investigate the role of subchondral bone in joint disease.
We assessed the association of horse and racing related factors and micro-CT based micromorphology of three separate subchondral bone layers with the initial stiffness and compressive fatigue life of bone plugs.
Furthermore, we investigated three different definitions of fatigue failure of subchondral bone during compressive fatigue testing.
Initial stiffness was 2,362 ± 443 MPa (mean ± standard deviation).
Median compressive fatigue life during cyclic loading to -78 MPa was 16,879 (range 210 to 57,064).
Subchondral bone stiffness increased over a median of 24% (range 3%-42%) of fatigue life to a maximum of 3,614 ± 635 MPa. Compressive fatigue life was positively associated with bone volume fraction in the deeper layers of subchondral bone, maximal stiffness, and the number of cycles to maximal stiffness.
Initial stiffness was positively associated with tissue mineral density in the deeper layers and bone volume fraction in the superficial layer.
Most specimens with a fatigue life of less than 5,500 cycles fractured grossly before reaching 30% reduction of maximal stiffness.
Cycles to 10% reduction of maximal stiffness correlated strongly with cycles to lowest recorded stiffness at gross fracture and thus is a valid alternative failure definition for compressive fatigue testing of subchondral bone.
Our results show that subchondral bone sclerosis as a result of high speed exercise and measured as bone volume fraction is positively associated with compressive fatigue life and thus has a protective effect on subchondral bone.
Further research is required to reconcile this finding with the common collocation of fatigue damage in sclerotic subchondral bone of racehorses.
Many bones within the axial and appendicular skeleton are subjected to repetitive, cyclic loading during the course of ordinary daily activities.
If this repetitive loading is of sufficient magnitude or duration, fatigue failure of the bone tissue may result.
In clinical orthopedics, trabecular fatigue fractures are observed as compressive stress fractures in the proximal femur, vertebrae, calcaneus and tibia, and are often preceded by buckling and bending of microstructural elements.
However, the relative importance of bone density and architecture in the etiology of these fractures is poorly understood.
The aim of the study was to investigate failure mechanisms of 3D trabecular bone using micro-computed tomography (microCT).
Because of its nondestructive nature, microCT represents an ideal approach for performing not only static measurements of bone architecture but also dynamic measurements of failure initiation and propagation as well as damage accumulation.
For the purpose of the study, a novel micro-compression device was devised to measure loaded trabecular bone specimens directly in a micro-tomographic system.
The measurement window in the device was made of a radiolucent, highly stiff plastic to enable X-rays to penetrate the material. The micro-compressor has an outer diameter of 19 mm and a total length of 65 mm. The internal load chamber fits wet or dry bone specimens with maximal diameters of 9 mm and maximal lengths of 22 mm. For the actual measurement, first, the unloaded bone is measured in the microCT.
Second, a load-displacement curve is recorded where the load is measured with an integrated mini-button load cell and the displacement is computed directly from the microCT scout-view.
For each load case, a 3D snap-shot of the structure under load is taken providing 34 microm nominal resolution.
Initial measurements included specimens from bovine tibiae and whale spine to investigate the influence of the structure type on the failure mechanism.
In a rod-like type of architecture as seen in the whale spine, structural failure was described by an initial buckling and bending of structural elements followed by a collapse of the overloaded trabeculae.
In the more plate-like bovine tibial architecture, buckling and bending could not be observed.
Failure rather seemed to occur instantaneously.
In conclusion, micro-compression in combination with 3D microCT allows visualization of failure initiation and propagation and monitoring of damage accumulation in a nondestructive way.
We expect these findings to improve our understanding of the relative importance of density, architecture and load in the etiology of spontaneous fractures of the hip and the spine.
Eventually, this improved understanding may lead to more successful approaches to the prevention of age-related fractures.
Al-Li-Cu-Mg-Zr alloys are widely used in the aerospace industry for different applications and make an excellent concurrent to high-performance composites.
This family of alloys has remarkable properties like low density, high elastic modulus, high strength and specific stiffness, fracture toughness, fatigue crack growth resistance, and improved corrosion resistance.
The present work aims to investigate a family of Al-Li alloys by employing suitable characterization techniques such as computer-aided cooling curve analysis and thermal dilatometry to characterize the as-cast alloy.
The characterization temperatures of the alloy were obtained and the phase transformation temperatures were concluded as thermal expansion inflection points as well.
Furthermore, the homogenization heat treatment effect of the alloy is examined through optical microscopy (OM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Vickers microhardness testing to determine the optimum heat treatment time.
The results reveal the formation of δ', δ and β' precipitates in the alloy after different hours of homogenization heat treatment.
Notably, our investigation identifies the optimum heat treatment time for the alloy as 26h at 515 °C, resulting in reduced hardness and barely any chemical segregation.
These findings contribute to the characterization of as-cast Al-Li alloys and the understanding of microstructure evolution and mechanical properties during homogenization heat treatment that offer a valuable insight for enhancing their performance in aerospace applications.
Ultrasonic surface deep rolling (USDR), oxygen boost diffusion (OBD), and their combination (USDR-OBD) were all used to improve the surface hardening of pure titanium.
The microstructure, microhardness, and fatigue life of pure titanium treated by USDR, OBD, and USDR-OBD methods were analyzed.
USDR treatment induced a severe deformation area, while OBD treatment produced a brittle oxygen diffusion zone.
The USDR-OBD treated samples approached the highest hardness in comparison with other treated samples.
The fatigue lives of USDR treated samples were improved, which was due to the high compressive residual stress and refined grains.
However, the fatigue lives of both OBD treated samples and USDR-OBD treated samples were decreased due to premature crack initiation and rapid propagation in the oxygen diffusion zone.
Finally, the fatigue fracture mechanisms of different samples were proposed.
Miniature laser welds with the root depth in the range of 50-300 μm represent air-tight joints between the components in medical devices, such as those in implants, growth rods, stents and various prostheses.
The current work focuses on the development of a fatigue test specimen and procedure to determine fatigue lives of shear-loaded laser welds.
A cobalt-chromium (CoCr) alloy is used as a benchmark case.
S-N graphs, damage process, and fracture surfaces are studied by applying x-ray analysis, atomic force microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy both before and after the crack onset.
A non-linear material model is fitted for the CoCr alloy to run finite element simulations of the damage and deformation.
As a result, two tensile-loaded specimen designs are established and the performance is compared to that of a traditional torque-loaded specimen.
The new generation specimens show less variation in the determined fatigue lives due to well-defined crack onset point and, therefore, precise weld seam load during the experiments.
The fatigue damage concentrates to the welded material and the entire weld experiences fatigue prior to the final, fracture-governed failure phase.
For the studied weld seams of hardened CoCr, a regression fatigue limit of 10.8-11.8 MPa, where the stress refers to the arithmetic average shear stress computed along the region dominated by shear loading, is determined.
This study presents a simulation-based damage modeling and fatigue risk assessment of a reusable ceramic matrix composite thruster designed for short-duration, green bipropellant propulsion systems.
The thruster is constructed from a fiber-reinforced ultra-high temperature ceramic matrix composite composed of zirconium diboride, silicon carbide, and carbon fibers.
Time-resolved thermal and structural simulations are conducted on a validated thruster geometry to characterize the severity of early-stage thermal shock, stress buildup, and potential degradation pathways.
Unlike traditional fatigue studies that rely on empirical fatigue constants or Paris-law-based crack-growth models, this work introduces a simulation-derived stress-margin envelope methodology that incorporates ±20% variability in temperature-dependent material strength, offering a physically grounded yet conservative risk estimate.
From this, a normalized risk index is derived to evaluate the likelihood of damage initiation in critical regions over the 0-10 s firing window.
The results indicate that the convergent throat region experiences a peak thermal gradient rate of approximately 380 K/s, with the normalized thermal shock index exceeding 43.
Stress margins in this region collapse by 2.3 s, while margin loss in the flange curvature appears near 8 s.
These findings are mapped into green, yellow, and red risk bands to classify operational safety zones.
All the results assume no active cooling, representing conservative operating limits.
If regenerative or ablative cooling is implemented, these margins would improve significantly.
The framework established here enables a transparent, reproducible methodology for evaluating lifetime safety in ceramic propulsion nozzles and serves as a foundational tool for fatigue-resilient component design in green space engines.
In this article, we discuss an unusual pattern in long-crack behavior at low stress intensity factor ranges ΔK (below ΔK
A fracture of denture base  To evaluate the flexural strength of repaired heat-polymerized acrylic resin, with different percentage of aluminum oxide (Al Fifty specimens of heat-polymerized acrylic resin were prepared according to the American Dental Association specification no. 12 (65 mm × 10 mm × 2.5 mm).
Al The study showed that repair resin incorporated with 1.5% Al
There are some important advantages presented by metal specimens coated with WIP-C1 (Ni/CrC)-type materials.
However, given the coating methods and the stress under dynamic loads, there are issues that need to be taken into account, particularly in terms of the behavior at the interface between the two materials.
Using standardized cylindrical 1018 steel specimens uniformly coated with WIP-C1 (Ni/CrC) by cold spraying, this study investigated the fatigue behavior of the specimen as a whole, focusing on the interface areas of the two materials.
The fatigue life diagram is given, to a large extent, by the behavior of the base material. As a result, in this work, we have focused not so much on the fatigue behavior of the assembly as on the integrity of the coating material and the defects, failures, etc., that may occur at the interface after a certain number of cycles.
The applied load was cyclic fatigue through alternating-symmetric cycles.
Scanning optical microscopy was used to observe plastic deformations and crack propagation during the breakage process.
It was found that both the base material zone and the cover material zone presented good performance when the maximum stresses were at low values.
A fatigue durability curve was also plotted, showing a conventional appearance for a metallic material, slightly influenced by the destruction of the base material interface.
At higher maximum stress and, consequently, to large strains, a series of destructions at the interface of the two materials, of different types, were observed and will be highlighted in the paper.
Ultrasonic peening treatment (UPT) as a method of severe plastic deformation was used to treat cruciform welded joints of Q345 steel.
The application of UPT achieves material surface nanocrystallization of the peening zone, reduces stress concentration, and produces residual compressive stresses at the welded toe.
A series of high-cycle rotating-bending fatigue tests was conducted on H13 steel produced by electroslag remelting (ESR) and by vacuum induction melting followed by vacuum arc remelting (VIM+VAR).
Mechanical forces applied over a period of time tend to cause fatigue failure in natural organisms and in engineering structures.
Here, the theoretical approach known as Continuum Damage Mechanics is applied to study fatigue damage development in trees.
It is found that growth in the form of an annual ring of new material is a very effective strategy to limit fatigue damage, due to the fact that, over time, each ring moves inside the trunk, reducing stress.
If (as is generally assumed) the tree grows so as to keep the bending stress on its trunk constant, then fatigue failure will be effectively impossible until the tree is very old.
One interpretation of this finding is that high cycle fatigue simply never occurs in trees: they don't accumulate fatigue damage but rather fail by instantaneous overload or low cycle fatigue during a single storm.
Another interpretation is that the bending stress is maybe not kept constant but changes as the tree grows, which would be a more efficient strategy making the best use of material. These findings are considered using data from the literature and their implications for the creation of biomimetic products are discussed.
Possible experiments to test these theoretical predictions are suggested.
In this work, the fatigue and cellular performance of novel superficially treated porous titanium dental implants made up using conventional powder metallurgy and space-holder techniques (30 vol.% and 50 vol.%, both with a spacer size range of 100-200 µm) are evaluated.
Before the sintering stage, a specific stage of CNC milling of the screw thread of the implant is used.
After the consolidation processing, different surface modifications are performed: chemical etching and bioactive coatings (BG 45S5 and BG 1393).
The results are discussed in terms of the effect of the porosity, as well as the surface roughness, chemical composition, and adherence of the coatings on the fatigue resistance and the osteoblast cells' behavior for the proposed implants.
Macro-pores are preferential sites of the nucleation of cracks and bone cell adhesion, and they increase the cellular activity of the implants, but decrease the fatigue life.
In conclusion, SH 30 vol.% dental implant chemical etching presents the best bio-functional (in vitro osseointegration) and bio-mechanical (stiffness, yield strength and fatigue life) balance, which could ensure the required characteristics of cortical bone tissue.
Anti-fatigue design in the machining process of aviation material requires advanced processes to enhance the surface integrity and a holistic model which can optimize the process aiming at maximum fatigue life.
In the present study, the axial ultrasonic assisted milling process was utilized to machine the Inconel 718 while the process executes the thermomechanical cutting and peening action simultaneously.
To optimize the process factors, a hybrid model using a combination of regression analysis and an analytical model was developed to correlate the machining factors, i.e., vibration amplitude, cutting velocity and feed rate to fatigue life.
Herein, the former was used to map the process inputs to surface integrity aspects (SIAs), viz. roughness, hardness and residual stress; then, the SIA was mapped to fatigue life through a stress-based approach.
The obtained results revealed that there is close agreement between the measured and predicted values of fatigue life where the prediction error is less than two times the dispersion.
On the other hand, applying ultrasonic vibration at the highest amplitude together with the maximum feed rate and cutting velocity yield significant improvement in fatigue life, i.e., three times the same condition without ultrasonic vibration in light of the enhancement of compressive residual stress and work hardening of the surface layers.
Bulk metallic glasses have application potential in engineering structures due to their exceptional strength and fracture toughness.
Their fatigue resistance is very important for the application as well.
We report the tension-tension fatigue damage behavior of a Zr
Since hot-dip galvanizing causes a heat effect on cold-worked steel substrate and produces a coating layer comprised of distinct phases with varying mechanical properties, the fatigue mechanism of hot-dip galvanized steel is very complex and hard to clarify.
In this study, AISI 1020 steel that has been normalized to minimize susceptibility to the heat effect was used to clarify the effect of the galvanizing layer on the tensile and fatigue properties.
The galvanizing layer causes a reduction in the yield point, tensile strength, and fatigue strength.
The reduction in the fatigue strength was more significant in the high cycle fatigue at
The load transferred through the hip joint is one of the major forces occurring in the human body.
After the replacement of this joint in THR arthroplasty, the load is transferred through the implant to the femoral bone.
Loosening of the fixation of the implant and the fatigue failure of prosthetic stems create problems for both patient and surgeon.
Both problems can be reduced by the use of Finite Element (FE) analysis to predict stresses and fatigue lifes but the results are sensitive to assumptions regarding the loading conditions and the idealisation of the components.
Consequently the stress distributions and resulting fatigue notch factors in the human femur with an endoprosthesis have been determined for different assumptions regarding the form of the idealisation, the load conditions, and the interface conditions.
The FE results show that a realistic loading condition without a tension banding force always produces the highest fatigue notch factor and von Mises stresses.
An equivalent 2D plane stress model obtained by varying the thickness is likely to give more realistic stresses because it predicts more realistic strains than other 2D approximations.
The full bonded interface is a satisfactory approximation for the real interface conditions because it predicts stress distributions of the correct form without excessive stress concentration.
Globally, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the third most common visual impairment.
Most often attributed to cellular fatigue with aging, over expression of reactive oxygen species (ROS) causes ROS accumulation in the retina, leading to chronic inflammatory immune signaling, cellular and tissue damage, and eventual blindness.
If left uncontrolled, the disease will progress from the dry form of AMD to more severe forms such as geographic atrophy or wet AMD, hallmarked by choroidal neovascularization.
There is no cure for AMD and treatment options are limited.
Treatment options for wet AMD require invasive ocular injections or implants, yet fail to address the disease progressing factors.
To provide more complete treatment of AMD, the application of a novel anti-inflammatory heme-bound human serum albumin (heme-albumin) protein complex delivered by antioxidant ROS scavenging polydopamine (PDA) nanoparticles (NPs) for sustained treatment of AMD was investigated.
Through the induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) by heme-albumin in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, anti-inflammatory protection may be provided through the generation of carbon monoxide (CO) and biliverdin during heme catabolism.
Our results show that the novel protein complex has negligible cytotoxicity towards RPE cells (ARPE-19), reduces oxidative stress in both inflammatory and ROS
As brazed stainless steel components in service often have to withstand cyclic loads in corrosive environments, the corrosion fatigue properties of brazed joints have to be characterised.
Application-relevant corrosion fatigue tests in corrosive media are extremely rare for brazed joints and cyclic deformation curves are barely investigated.
In this study, fatigue tests of brazed AISI 304L/BAu-4 joints were performed in air and synthetic exhaust gas condensate K2.2 according to VDA 230-214.
The fatigue behaviour of the brazed joints was compared to properties of the austenitic base material. Strain, electrical, magnetic, temperature and electrochemical measurement techniques were applied within fatigue and corrosion fatigue tests to characterise the cyclic deformation and damage behaviour of the brazed joints.
It was found that the fatigue strength of 397 MPa at 2 × 10⁶ cycles was reduced down to 51% due to the superimposed corrosive loading.
Divergent microstructure-related damage mechanisms were identified for corrosion fatigue loadings and fatigue loadings of specimens in the as-received and pre-corroded conditions.
The investigations demonstrate the important role of corrosive environments for the mechanical performance of brazed stainless steel joints.
The paper presents an analysis of mixed-mode fatigue crack growth in bridge steel after 100-years operating time.
Experiments were carried out under mode I + II configuration on Compact Tension Shear (CTS) specimens and mode I + III on rectangular specimens with lateral stress concentrator under bending and torsion loading type.
Due to the lack of accurate Stress Intensity Factor (SIF) solutions, the crack path was modelled with the finite element method according to its experimental observation.
As a result, the Kinetic Fatigue Fracture Diagrams (KFFD) were constructed.
Due to the change in the tendency of higher fatigue crack growth rates from K
The prevalence of prostatitis is extremely high, with vast majority belongs to National Institutes of Health Category III: Chronic Prostatitis (CP)/Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndromes (CPPS).
The etiology of CP/CPPS is noninfectious, with no precise mechanisms has been elucidated to date.
During male ejaculation, the pelvic muscles undergo coordinated intense contraction to expel the semen out of the male genital tract, a process associated with locally increased levels of lactic acid and free radicals as byproducts.
In this regards, repetitive sexual activities with frequent ejaculation would impede the drainage and cause accumulation of these byproducts in the pelvic region, triggering consequent local pathophysiological changes such as edema, venous dilation and muscular malfunction, which further leads to common complaints in CP/CPPS patients such as lower urinary tract symptoms, pelvic discomfort and pain.
Large cohort studies have revealed that frequent ejaculation is associated with higher risk of prostatitis, especially in young men.
Also, clear evidences from sports medical research has shown that intense muscular contraction will lead to locally increased production of free radicals and lactic acid.
Therefore, the pelvic muscles during ejaculation would induce substantial increase of these byproducts, which if not cleared effectively, could trigger series of local cellular/tissue damages resulting in inflammation, muscular fatigue and dysfunction.
If our hypothesis were validated, it could be suggested that at least in some patients, the treatment of CP/CPPS could be tuned as dealing with post-sports recovery, such as hot bath to promote local blood circulation and free radical scavenger drugs such as vitamin C and E to neutralize free radicals.
This paper is intended to provide an overview of the composition, mechanical properties, biocompatibility, and clinical applications for titanium alloys that are used for fracture fixation implants.
A new class of titanium implant alloys has emerged in recent years that exhibits a beta microstructure and a unique combination of mechanical properties.
Important information regarding notch sensitivity testing and clinical significance is also discussed.
Attributes such as stress corrosion cracking resistance, fatigue strength, and wear characteristics are also essential for specific clinical applications, but are beyond the scope of this presentation.
Additive manufacturing (AM) is replacing conventional manufacturing techniques due to its ability to manufacture complex structures with near-net shape and reduced material wastage.
However, the poor surface integrity of the AM parts deteriorates the service life of the components.
The AM parts should be subjected to post-processing treatment for improving surface integrity and fatigue life.
In this research, maraging steel is printed using direct metal laser sintering (DMLS) process and the influence of grinding on the fatigue life of this additively manufactured material was investigated.
For this purpose, the grinding experiments were performed under two different grinding environments such as dry and cryogenic conditions using a cubic boron nitride (CBN) grinding wheel.
The results revealed that surface roughness could be reduced by about 87% under cryogenic condition over dry grinding.
The fatigue tests carried out on the additive manufactured materials exposed a substantial increase of about 170% in their fatigue life when subjected to cryogenic grinding.
Evaluating the condition of a Hadfield steel crossing nose using existing inspection methods is subject to accessibility and geographical constraints.
Thus, the use of conditional monitoring techniques to complement the existing inspection methods has become increasingly necessary.
This paper focuses on the study of acoustic emission (AE) behaviour and its correlation with fatigue crack growth in Hadfield steel during bending fatigue tests.
The probability density function for acoustic emission parameters was analysed based on the power law distribution.
The results show that a sharp increase in the moving average and cumulative sum of the AE parameter can give early warning against the final failure of Hadfield steel.
Two parts (Part 1 and Part 2) can be identified using the change in the slope of duration rate (
Ever-increasing demands of industrial manufacturing regarding mechanical properties require the development of novel alloys designed towards the respective manufacturing process.
Here, we consider wire arc additive manufacturing.
To this end, Al alloys with additions of Zn, Mg and Cu have been designed considering the requirements of good mechanical properties and limited hot cracking susceptibility.
The samples were produced using the cold metal transfer pulse advanced (CMT-PADV) technique, known for its ability to produce lower porosity parts with smaller grain size.
After material simulations to determine the optimal heat treatment, the samples were solution heat treated, quenched and aged to enhance their mechanical performance.
Chemical analysis, mechanical properties and microstructure evolution were evaluated using optical light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, X-ray fluorescence analysis and X-ray radiography, as well as tensile, fatigue and hardness tests.
The objective of this research was to evaluate in detail the mechanical properties and microstructure of the newly designed high-performance Al-Zn-based alloy before and after ageing heat treatment.
The only defects found in the parts built under optimised conditions were small dispersed porosities, without any visible cracks or lack of fusion.
Furthermore, the mechanical properties are superior to those of commercial 7xxx alloys and remarkably independent of the testing direction (parallel or perpendicular to the deposit beads).
The presented analyses are very promising regarding additive manufacturing of high-strength aluminium alloys.
The structural damage of rail vehicle bogie frames is mostly caused by fatigue cumulative damage under the action of multi-level complex loads.
Under complex loads, the sequence effect and coupling effect between loads have a significant impact on structural fatigue damage.
Meanwhile, the performance degradation of components during service also affects the damage accumulation and the remaining life of the structure.
Traditional linear cumulative damage models and the Manson-Halford model ignore the influences of load sequence effect, load interaction, and structural degradation on fatigue life, leading to inaccurate remaining life predictions.
By introducing degradation parameters to modify the Manson-Halford model, an improved nonlinear cumulative damage model is proposed, and its accuracy is verified by combining standard specimen fatigue test data.
Finally, the improved cumulative damage model was applied to engineering practice in engineering to predict and evaluate the fatigue life of bogie frames.
Low Energy Availability (LEA) arises from the inability to cover energy needs and requirements of training or normal physiological functions.
This value differs from the energy balance, which takes into account the total daily energy intake compared to all the energy expended, regardless of the amount of fat-free mass.
Insufficient energy consumption affects recovery, adaptation processes, increases the risk of injury or illness, so all of this can negatively affect performance.
This mini-review is written on research articles in Pubmed database related to LEA in endurance-trained men and its impact on performance and testosterone.
This article also clarifies the prevalence of LEA in male endurance athletes and its correlation to Relative Energy Deficiency in Sports (RED-S).
LEA occurs in male endurance athletes and correlates with decreased testosterone levels, decreased bone density and also Resting Metabolic Rate.
In endurance-trained men, there is great potential for the negative consequences of low energy availability.
It can also be said that there are possibilities for primary screening, so we recommend regular check-ups of blood markers, body structure and keeping not only training but also dietary records, which can increase awareness of an adequate energy balance.
To determine the resin-strengthening dependence of a soda-lime-glass analogue for dental porcelain as a function of biaxial flexure strength (BFS), test crosshead rate and cementation seating load.
Disc-shaped soda-lime glass specimens were divided into twelve groups (n=24), alumina particle air abraded and hydrofluoric acid-etched.
Specimens (Groups A-D) were stored in a desiccator prior to testing at crosshead rates of 0.01, 0.1, 1 and 10mm/min, respectively.
The remaining specimens were silane treated, Rely-X Veneer resin-coated with a seating load of 5N (Groups E-H) and 30N (Groups I-L) prior to light irradiation at 480±20mW/cm(2), 24h dry storage and BFS testing at 0.01, 0.1, 1 and 10mm/min, respectively.
A linear logarithmic regression curve was fit to the raw data to elucidate static fatigue effects of the soda-lime-glass.
Analysis of group means was performed utilising a general linear model univariate analysis and post hoc all paired Tukey tests (P<0.05).
The linear logarithmic regression curve demonstrated the static fatigue effects of the soda-lime-glass analogue.
Rely-X Veneer resin-coating (Groups E-L) resulted in significant increases in the mean BFS data for all crosshead rates examined (all P<0.001).
However, the pattern of rate dependence effects on resin-cementation deviated from the log relationship observed with the uncoated controls.
This study further highlights that when slow crack growth is simulated during testing, valuable insights into the significant modification of a hereto well described phenomenon such as resin-strengthening mediated by the resin-ceramic hybrid layer is provided.
Shot peening is a surface treatment process that improves the fatigue life of a material and suppresses cracks by generating residual stress on the surface.
The injected small shots create a compressive residual stress layer on the material's surface.
Maximum compressive residual stress occurs at a certain depth, and tensile residual stress gradually occurs as the depth increases.
This process is primarily used for nickel-based superalloy steel materials in certain environments, such as the aerospace industry and nuclear power fields.
To prevent such a severe accident due to the high-temperature and high-pressure environment, evaluating the residual stress of shot-peened materials is essential in evaluating the soundness of the material. Representative methods for evaluating residual stress include perforation strain gauge analysis, X-ray diffraction (XRD), and ultrasonic testing.
Among them, ultrasonic testing is a representative, non-destructive evaluation method, and residual stress can be estimated using a Rayleigh wave.
Therefore, in this study, the maximum compressive residual stress value of the peened Inconel 718 specimen was predicted using a prediction convolutional neural network (CNN) based on the relationship between Rayleigh wave dispersion and stress distribution on the specimen.
By analyzing the residual stress distribution in the depth direction generated in the model from various studies in the literature, 173 residual stress distributions were generated using the Gaussian function and factorial design approach.
The distribution generated using the relationship was converted into 173 Rayleigh wave dispersion data to be used as a database for the CNN model.
The CNN model was learned through this database, and performance was verified using validation data.
The adopted Rayleigh wave dispersion and convolutional neural network procedures demonstrate the ability to predict the maximum compressive residual stress in the peened specimen.
A GPM-30 fatigue machine was used to investigate the influence of surface ultrasonic rolling (SURT) on the rolling contact fatigue (RCF) life of D2 wheel steel.
The experimental results present that the RCF life of the grinding processing sample is 4.1 × 10
The aim of this study was to determine some characteristics of the fracture surface of an acrylic resin denture.
For this purpose, five complete upper dentures and two complete lower dentures that had fractured into two pieces were collected, the fracture surfaces were duplicated with the SEM-replica technique and duplicated surfaces were investigated with a scanning electron microscope.
The reproducibility of the SEM-replica technique was tested by comparing one original sample surface and its replica surface of the same area.
The SEM-photomicrographs revealed a series of fine striations in the fracture surfaces of both the upper and lower dentures perpendicularly orientated to the direction of the fracture propagation.
A smooth area on the fracture surface was assumed to indicate a slow fatigue fracture process, and a rougher area fracturing with increased velocity.
The composition and structure were studied in the cast and in the solder of bridges which had failed clinically.
Both materials were gold alloys but with different contents of Pt, Ag and Zn.
The metallographic investigation revealed defects mostly in the solder, situated in the subsurface layer.
SEM studied of the fracture surface revealed large porosites and a structure of dense parallel lines--striations--, indicating that the material had failed from fatigue.
The materials in the fractured bridges were identified by micro-probe measurements.
It was stated that cast material and solder material used together, were of different composition.
Soft gasket-like polymer films may provide multiple advantages in inhibiting fretting corrosion between metal-hard surfaces in total joint implants.
Self-reinforced composites (SRC's) made from either poly(ether ether ketone), SRC-PEEK, or ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, SRC-PE, were fabricated and tested to investigate their ability to limit or prevent mechanically assisted corrosion in modular taper devices.
Hot compaction was used to create nominally 100 μm thick unidirectional composite gaskets.
These gaskets were placed on the trunnions of modular head-neck tapers and seated with 4000 N.
One million cycle potentiostatic fretting corrosion tests (3000 N, R = 0.1, 15 Hz, -0.05 V) were employed to assess the ability of these SRCs to reduce or prevent fretting corrosion damage in the modular taper junction.
Fretting currents and head-neck micromotion were evaluated.
The results of testing, along with pull-off tests and optical and scanning electron microscopic analysis showed that SRC gaskets reduced or eliminated fretting corrosion currents, with the SRC-PEEK performing better than the SRC-PE.
Fretting currents were low for SRC's compared to metal-metal tapers.
No wear through of the gaskets was noted and minimal wear damage was seen in the SRC-PEEK gaskets.
SRC-PE gaskets demonstrated greater deformation and damage compared to the SRC-PEEK gaskets.
Pull-off loads for the SRC-PEEK were higher than SRC-PE and not statistically different than the control metal-metal junctions.
There was evidence of fatigue cracks forming at the high stress concentration junctions for the SRC-PEEK at the thread form corners of the trunnion, but no loss of integrity was observed.
SRC-PEEK gaskets show promise as a method to eliminate modular taper fretting corrosion.
Stainless steels are important in various industries due to their unique properties and durable life cycle.
However, with increasing demands for prolonged life cycles, better mechanical properties, and improved residual stresses, new treatment techniques, such as deep cryogenic treatment (DCT), are on the rise to further push the improvement in stainless steels.
This study focuses on the effect of DCT on austenitic stainless steel AISI 304L, while also considering the influence of solution annealing temperature on DCT effectiveness.
Both aspects are assessed through the research of microstructure, selected mechanical properties (hardness, fracture and impact toughness, compressive and tensile strength, strain-hardening exponent, and fatigue resistance), and residual stresses by comparing the DCT state with conventionally treated counterparts.
The results indicate the complex interdependency of investigated microstructural characteristics and residual stress states, which is the main reason for induced changes in mechanical properties.
The results show both the significant and insignificant effects of DCT on individual properties of AISI 304L.
Overall, solution annealing at a higher temperature (1080 °C) showed more prominent results in combination with DCT, which can be utilized for different manufacturing procedures of austenitic stainless steels for various applications.
Mechanical surface treatments are needed to perform on components for fatigue life enhancement by introducing beneficial compressive residual stress and material strengthening.
In this study, the combined turning with low plasticity burnishing (LPB) surface modification process was performed for the sake of improving mechanical properties of Inconel 718.
Firstly, the evolution of microstructure and residual stress after the LPB process were analyzed with the aid of electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) and X-ray diffraction (XRD), respectively.
Secondly, the tensile behavior of treated samples was investigated through tension tests.
Finally, the micro-strengthening mechanism of Inconel 718, induced by the LPB process, was revealed.
The results show that the peak compressive stress is increased by a factor of 4.2 after the LPB process.
The grain refinement induced by the LPB process is attributed to the increase of average misorientation and the formation of high angle grain boundaries (HAGBs).
The enhanced yield strength depends on the decreased average spacing and the increased HAGBs.
To study the effect of the surface properties on the bending fatigue performance of heavy-duty gear steel, the authors of this paper used the ultrasonic surface rolling process (USRP) to strengthen 20Cr2Ni4A carburized gear steel.
USRP is a novel technique in which the ultrasonic technology is incorporated into the concept of conventional deep rolling.
In this study, we illustrated how the surface properties and cross-section mechanical property influence the three-point bending fatigue life of the samples before and after USRP treatment.
At the same time, the predicted failure probability-stress-number of cycles (
Manufacturing process based imperfections can reduce the theoretical fatigue strength since they can be considered as pre-existent microcracks.
The statistical distribution of fatigue fracture initiating defect sizes also varies with the highly-stressed volume, since the probability of a larger highly-stressed volume to inherit a potentially critical defect is elevated.
This fact is widely known by the scientific community as the statistical size effect.
The assessment of this effect within this paper is based on the statistical distribution of defect sizes in a reference volume V 0 compared to an arbitrary enlarged volume V α .
By implementation of the crack resistance curve in the Kitagawa-Takahashi diagram, a fatigue assessment model, based on the volume-dependent probability of occurrence of inhomogeneities, is set up, leading to a multidimensional fatigue assessment map.
It is shown that state-of-the-art methodologies for the evaluation of the statistical size effect can lead to noticeable over-sizing in fatigue design of approximately 10 % .
On the other hand, the presented approach, which links the statistically based distribution of defect sizes in an arbitrary highly-stressed volume to a crack-resistant dependent Kitagawa-Takahashi diagram leads to a more accurate fatigue design with a maximal conservative deviation of 5 % to the experimental validation data.
Therefore, the introduced fatigue assessment map improves fatigue design considering the statistical size effect of lightweight aluminium cast alloys.
There are significant potential advantages for restoration of meniscal function using a bio-stable synthetic implant that combines long-term durability with a dependable biomechanical performance resembling that of the natural meniscus.
A novel meniscus implant made of a compliant polycarbonate-urethane matrix reinforced with high modulus ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene fibers was designed as a composite structure that mimics the structural elements of the natural medial meniscus.
The overall success of such an implant is linked on its capability to replicate the stress distribution in the knee over the long-term.
As this function of the device is directly dependent on its mechanical properties, changes to the material due to exposure to the joint environment and repeated loading could have non-trivial influences on the viscoelastic properties of the implant.
Thus, the goal of this study was to measure and characterize the strain-rate response, as well as the viscoelastic properties of the implant as measured by creep, stress relaxation, and hysteresis after simulated use, by subjecting the implant to realistic joint loads up to 2 million cycles in a joint-like setting.
The meniscus implant behaved as a non-linear viscoelastic material. The implant underwent minimal plastic deformation after 2 million fatigue loading cycles.
Under low compressive loads, the implant was fairly flexible, and able to deform relatively easily (E=120-200 kPa).
However as the compressive load applied on the implant was increased, the implant became stiffer (E=3.8-5.2 MPa), to resist deformation.
The meniscus implant appears well-matched to the viscoelastic properties of the natural meniscus, and importantly, these properties were found to remain stable and minimally affected by potentially degradative and loading conditions associated with long-term use.
A numerical model based on the theory of bone remodeling is proposed to predict the evolution of trabecular bone architecture within the vertebral body and to investigate the process of degeneration in vertebral bone.
In this study, particular attention is paid on the description of microstructure changes during the aging process.
To take into account the effect of basic multicellular units (BMUs), a set of computational algorithms has been developed.
It is assumed that BMU activation probability depends on the state of damaged bone tissue (damage accumulation, ω), which is evaluated according to previous research concerning bone fatigue damage.
Combining these algorithms with the finite-element method (FEM), the microstructure of vertebral bone has been predicted for up to 8 simulated years.
Moreover, biomechanical material properties have been monitored to investigate the changes of vertebral bone with age.
This study shows that the simulation based on BMU activities has the potential to define and predict the morphological evolution of the vertebral body.
It can be concluded that the novel algorithms incorporating the coupled effects of both adaptive remodeling and microdamage remodeling could be utilized to gain greater insight into the mechanism of bone loss in the elderly population.
Surface integrity induced by finishing processes significantly affects the functional performance of machined components.
In this work, three kinds of finishing processes, i.e., precision hard turning, conventional grinding, and sequential grinding and honing, were used for the finish machining of AISI 52100 bearing steel rings.
The surface integrity induced by these finishing processes was studied via SEM investigations and residual stress measurements.
To investigate rolling contact fatigue performance, contact fatigue tests were performed on a twin-disc testing machine.
As the main results, the SEM observations show that precision hard turning and grinding introduce microstructural alterations.
Indeed, in precision hard turning, a fine white layer (<1 μm) is observed on the top surface, followed by a thermally affected zone in the subsurface, and in grinding only, a white layer with 5 μm thickness is observed.
However, no microstructural changes are found after sequential grinding and honing processes.
White layers induced by precision hard turning and grinding possess compressive residual stresses.
Grinding and sequential grinding and honing processes generate similar residual stress distributions, which are maximum and compressive at the machined surface and tensile at the subsurface depth of 15 μm. Precision hard turning generates a “hook”-shaped residual stress profile with maximum compressive value at the subsurface depth and thus contributes as a prenominal factor to the obtainment of the longest fatigue life with respect to other finishing processes.
Due to the high quality of surface roughness (Ra = 0.05 μm), honing post grinding improves the fatigue life of bearing rings by 2.6 times in comparison with grinding.
Subsurface compressive residual stresses, as well as low surface roughness, are key parameters for extending bearing fatigue life.
The digitization of materials is the prerequisite for accelerating product development.
However, technologically, this is only beneficial when reliability is maintained.
This requires comprehension of the microstructure-driven fatigue damage mechanisms across scales.
A substantial fraction of the lifetime for high performance materials is attributed to surface damage accumulation at the microstructural scale (e.g., extrusions and micro crack formation).
Although, its modeling is impeded by a lack of comprehensive understanding of the related mechanisms.
This makes statistical validation at the same scale by micromechanical experimentation a fundamental requirement.
Hence, a large quantity of processed experimental data, which can only be acquired by automated experiments and data analyses, is crucial. Surface damage evolution is often accessed by imaging and subsequent image post-processing.
In this work, we evaluated deep learning (DL) methodologies for semantic segmentation and different image processing approaches for quantitative slip trace characterization.
Due to limited annotated data, a U-Net architecture was utilized.
Three data sets of damage locations observed in scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of ferritic steel, martensitic steel and copper specimens were prepared.
In order to allow the developed models to cope with material-specific damage morphology and imaging-induced variance, a customized augmentation pipeline for the input images was developed.
Material domain generalizability of ferritic steel and conjunct material trained models were tested successfully.
Multiple image processing routines to detect slip trace orientation (STO) from the DL segmented extrusion areas were implemented and assessed.
In conclusion, generalization to multiple materials has been achieved for the DL methodology, suggesting that extending it well beyond fatigue damage is feasible.
The fatigue plastic mechanism and dislocation characteristics of engineering materials are the key to studying fatigue damage.
In this study, the molecular dynamics (MD) method was employed to investigate the microstructural characteristics and fatigue mechanical properties of both single-crystalline and polycrystalline iron under varying strain amplitudes associated with cyclic hardening, cyclic softening, and cyclic saturation.
The occurrence, accumulation, and formation process of the local plastic fatigue damage of monocrystalline/polycrystalline iron under fatigue load are discussed.
The local plastic initiation and accumulation of single-crystal iron occur at the intersection of slip planes, which is the dislocation source.
The 1/2<111> dislocation plays an important role in the fatigue plastic accumulation of single-crystal iron.
Polycrystalline iron undergoes grain rotation and coalescence during cyclic loading.
The grain size responsible for plastic deformation gradually increases.
The initiation and accumulation of local plasticity occurs at the grain boundary, which eventually leads to fatigue damage at the grain boundary.
This model of joint design argues 1) that excessive fatigue damage (MDx) in articular cartilage collagen can be the "final cause" of an arthrosis; 2) that known responses of a growing joint's anatomy and geometry, and modeling and maintenance activities, to mechanical loads minimize that cause and thus arthroses; 3) and many biomechanical, biochemical, cell-biologic, genetic and traumatic "first causes" of arthroses could lead to that final cause.
The model depends partly on the following facts (marked by a single asterisk) and ideas (marked by a double asterisk).
A) During growth a joint's total loads can increase over 20 times without causing an arthrosis, yet in adults an equal loading increase would cause one.
B) Fatigue damage (MDx) occurs in joint tissues, larger strains increase it, and minimizing strains reduces it.
C) Bone can repair amounts of MDx below an "MDx threshold," but larger amounts can escape repair and accumulate.
The model assumes articular cartilage has similar features.
D) Bone modeling makes bones strong enough to keep their strains below bone's MDx threshold and minimize MDx.
Chondral modeling shapes and sizes joints during growth; that would keep articular cartilage strains below the chondral MDx threshold to minimize chondral MDx and arthroses.
Normal chondral modeling nearly stops in adults, which might explain point A above.
E) Throughout life maintenance activities preserve optimal physical, chemical and biologic properties of a joint's tissues.
To past emphases on the biochemical, genetic, cellular and molecular biologic features of adult joint physiology, this model adds organ-level, tissue-level and vital-biomechanical features of growing joints that invite study and understanding at lower levels of biologic organization.
Following injury of a complementary joint restraint, ligaments can be subjected to higher than normal stresses.
Normal ligaments are exposed to static (creep) and cyclic (fatigue) loading from which damage can accumulate at these higher than normal stresses.
This study tracked damage accumulation during creep and fatigue loading of normal rabbit medial collateral ligaments (MCLs) over a range of stresses, using modulus reduction as a marker of damage.
Creep tests were interrupted occasionally with unloading/reloading cycles to measure modulus.
Test stresses were normalized to ultimate tensile strength (UTS): 60%, 30%, and 15% UTS.
Not all creep and fatigues tests progressed until rupture but were stopped and followed by an assessment of the residual strength of that partially damaged ligament using a monotonic failure test.
Fatigue loading caused earlier modulus reduction than creep.
Modulus reduction occurred at lower increases in strain (strain relative to initial strain) for fatigue than creep.
In other words, at the same time or increase in strain, fatigue is more damaging than creep because the modulus ratio reduction is greater.
These findings suggest that creep and fatigue have different strain and damage mechanisms.
Ligaments exposed to creep or fatigue loading which produced a modulus reduction had decreased residual strength and increased toe-region strain in a subsequent monotonic failure test.
This finding confirmed that modulus reduction during creep and fatigue is a suitable marker of partial damage in ligament.
Cyclic loading caused damage earlier than static loading, likely an important consideration when ligaments are loaded to higher than normal magnitudes following injury of a complementary joint restraint.
The fatigue damage assessment of laser-repaired components is critical to their service safety.
However, since laser repairing is an advanced green remanufacturing technology, the current research on its fatigue mechanical behavior and fatigue damage evaluation methods is still immature.
In addition, the relevant models used for the fatigue damage evaluation can only indicate the fatigue limit of components, which cannot describe the damage accumulation process of the components during the fatigue testing.
Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop a fatigue damage evaluation method that can describe the fatigue damage accumulation and evolution to reveal the damage evolution mechanism during the fatigue test.
In this study, based on the 3D-DIC technique, new damage parameters, i.e., strain average value and strain standard deviation, are proposed to quantitatively describe the damage status of the nickel-based components during the stress-based fatigue process.
Then, based on the new damage parameters, a strain average value/strain standard deviation damage curve method is proposed to describe the damage status evolution of the components during the fatigue testing and evaluate its fatigue damage.
For example, in the tensile fatigue test, the strain average value/strain standard deviation damage curves of the substrate component and the laser-repaired component can be divided into two damage stages.
In the first damage stage, the damage increases slowly with the increase in the cycle number, whereas in the second damage stage, the damage increases rapidly with the increase in the cycle number.
At this time, there is a demarcation point between the first damage stage and second damage stage in the strain average value damage curve and strain standard deviation damage curve.
The cycle number of the demarcation point can be used as a reference value for the fatigue failure of the laser-repaired component.
In addition, the electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) technique was used to verify the validity of the evaluation results from the novel damage parameters.
A preliminary study of the effects from age and dehydration on fatigue crack growth in human dentin was conducted.
Compact tension (CT) fatigue specimens of coronal dentin were prepared from extracted molars and subjected to high cycle fatigue (10(5)<N<10(6)) under Mode I loading.
Young hydrated dentin (mean age=25+/-7 years), old hydrated dentin (mean age=55+/-14 years) and young dehydrated dentin (mean age=20+/-2 years) were examined.
Fatigue crack growth rates were quantified according to the Paris Law in terms of the crack growth exponent (m) and coefficient (C).
The average fatigue crack growth exponent for the young hydrated dentin (m=13.3+/-1.1) was significantly less than that for the hydrated old (m=21.6+/-5.2; p<0.003) and dehydrated young dentin (m=18.8+/-2.8; p<0.01).
Fatigue cracks in the old dentin underwent initiation at a lower stress intensity range than in young dentin and propagated at as significantly faster rate (over 100x).
Differences in the microscopic features of the fracture surfaces from the old and young dentin suggested that particular mechanisms contributing to energy dissipation and crack growth resistance in the young hydrated dentin were not present in the old dentin.
Based on results of this study, the fatigue crack growth resistance of human dentin decreases with both age of the tissue and dehydration.
An accurate value for the threshold stress intensity factor range, ΔK
To address the bottleneck issues of traditional ultrasonic polishing-such as unclear material removal mechanisms for ductile metals and difficulties in controlling machining outcomes-this paper employs a combined approach of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation and non-contact fixed-point polishing experiments to systematically reveal the intrinsic relationship between the dynamic characteristics of the polishing flow field and the evolution of the material surface.
Numerical simulations demonstrate that the cavitation effect significantly regulates the flow field structure: it not only confines the minimum pressure near the saturated vapor pressure but also markedly reduces the pressure peak while concurrently causing an overall decrease in flow velocity, forming a strongly coupled multi-parameter system of pressure, cavitation, and flow velocity.
Experimental results indicate a clear spatial differentiation in the material removal mechanism: the central region is dominated by cavitation erosion, resulting in numerous pits and a 33.6% increase in residual compressive stress; the edge region is primarily governed by fluid-mechanical scraping, effectively improving surface finish and increasing residual stress by 22.3%; the transition zone, influenced by synergistic mechanisms, shows the smallest stress increase (19.7%).
The enhancement of residual compressive stress can significantly improve the fatigue resistance of materials and prolong their fatigue life.
This study comprehensively elucidates the multi-mechanism synergistic material removal process involving "cavitation impact, mechanical scraping, and fatigue spallation" in ultrasonic polishing, providing a key theoretical basis and process optimization direction for sub-micrometer ultra-precision machining.
The use of additive manufacturing Ti-6Al-4V (AM Ti64) in removable partial denture (RPD) frameworks has become increasingly prevalent in clinical practice.
However, the elastic and fatigue properties of AM Ti64 clasps are not well understood.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to investigate the elastic and fatigue properties of AM Ti64 clasps by comparing them with milled Ti64 (Milled TC4) clasps.
Dumbbell specimens of AM Ti64 and Milled TC4 were prepared for tensile tests following the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 22674 standard (n=6).
Raw (R) and mechanically polished (P) clasp-shaped specimens were prepared for elastic and fatigue tests and divided into 4 groups: AM Ti64R, AM Ti64P, Milled TC4R, and Milled TC4P.
The clasp intaglio surface roughness was measured before testing (n=10).
The elastic deformation limit (EDL) of the clasp was determined through incremental displacement loading (n=10).
Fatigue tests were conducted on 160 clasps (40 specimens per group) at displacements from 0.30 mm to 1.00 mm for 10 AM Ti64 exhibited higher 0.2% offset yield strength and ultimate tensile strength than Milled TC4 (P<.001), with no significant difference in percentage elongation (P=.298) or elastic modulus (P=.151).
No significant differences in intaglio surface roughness were found between AM Ti64 and Milled TC4 clasps in both the raw (P=.306) and polished (P>.999) groups.
AM Ti64 clasps demonstrated greater EDL values than Milled TC4 clasps in both the raw and polished groups (P<.001).
The fatigue life of AM Ti64 clasps was significantly shorter than that of Milled TC4 clasps (P<.001), with no significant difference between the raw and polished groups in both AM Ti64 (P=.611) and Milled TC4 clasps (P>.999).
SEM observation revealed fatigue cracks originating from surface defects in AM Ti64 clasps.
Microstructural analysis showed lamellar α phase dominance in AM Ti64, while Milled TC4 exhibited primarily equiaxed α phase.
The AM Ti64 clasp showed better elasticity but inferior fatigue performance compared with Milled TC4 clasps.
Mechanical polishing did not significantly affect the elasticity or fatigue properties of the titanium clasp.
The fatigue of bone, in particular the associated modulus degradation and accumulation of permanent strain, has been implicated as the cause of femoral neck fractures and the migration of total joint replacements.
The objective of this study was to develop a technique to simulate the tensile fatigue behavior of human cortical bone.
A combined continuum damage mechanics (CDM) and finite element analysis (FEA) approach was used to predict the number of cycles to failure, modulus degradation and accumulation of permanent strain of human cortical bone specimens.
The simulation of fatigue testing of eight dumb-bell specimens of cortical bone were performed and the predictions compared with existing experimental data.
The predictions from the finite element models were in close agreement with the experimental data.
The models predicted similar development of modulus degradation and permanent strain as observed in the experimental tests.
The technique is capable of predicting the accumulation of permanent strain without the need for simulating every single load step.
These findings suggest that the complex fatigue behavior of human cortical bone can be simulated using the described approach and forms the first step for simulating the more complex mechanisms associated with femoral neck fractures and implant migration.
This study investigates the effects of multiple laser shock peening (LSP) treatments on the low-cycle fatigue performance and fracture mechanisms of laser-melted, additive-manufactured Ti-6.5Al-1Mo-1V-2Zr (TA15) titanium alloy.
The primary objective is to systematically evaluate how different LSP impact numbers (0, 1, and 2 impacts) enhance fatigue life and alter fracture behavior.
Low-cycle fatigue life was determined via tensile-compression fatigue testing.
Microfracture morphology was examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), surface residual stresses were measured by X-ray diffraction (XRD), and microhardness tests were conducted concurrently.
Results indicate that LSP significantly enhances fatigue life: fatigue life increased by 2.34 times and 2.56 times after one and two LSP impacts, respectively, compared to the untreated state.
As impact cycles increased, the microhardness of the material surface rose by 8.51% and 14.53%, respectively, with residual compressive stresses reaching -145 MPa and -183 MPa. Concurrently, LSP-2 treatment formed a refined microstructure featuring coexisting lamellar α and acicular martensite in the surface layer.
This strengthening effect is attributed to LSP-induced surface residual compressive stress, grain refinement, and the resulting migration of fatigue crack initiation from the surface to subsurface regions.
These findings provide critical insights for optimizing fatigue-resistant designs of additively manufactured titanium alloy components.
In this study, an investigation is carried out to evaluate and compare the material and physical properties of Grade 5 Titanium alloy (Ti6Al4V G5) samples of three different impeller manufacturers.
The study aims to identify the efficient impeller core material from different Ti6Al4V G5 manufacturers.
Ultrasonic fatigue test for Ti6Al4V samples of 100 horsepower (hp) centrifugal compressor impeller parts is performed before and after heat treatment.
The effect of microstructure on Very High Cycle Fatigue (VHCF) behavior of Ti6Al4V is also analyzed and discussed in detail.
Optical Microscopy (OM) and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) observation are carried out to investigate the microstructure of different Ti6Al4V material samples.
The dynamic elastic properties are measured by the Impulse Excitation Technique (IET) at room temperature.
The fracture behavior of the tensile specimens is analyzed by SEM.
Post-heat-treatment analysis of Ti6Al4V is also carried out and presented which affects the grain size of the material sample and thus considerable effect in the mechanical properties.
Chemical composition investigation of Ti6Al4V using SEM and Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy (EDS) also included in this study.
Advanced thermal-insulation materials for human use in high-temperature and ultra-low-temperature environments have received extensive attention.
However, facile synthesis of aerogels with excellent mechanical and thermal properties via freeze-drying or electrospinning alone is still challenging.
We hypothesized that a polyimide aerogel with high mechanical strength and good thermal-insulation performance and suitability for various applications at high and low temperatures could be prepared facilely using a simple and novel preparation strategy that combines electrospinning, freeze-drying, and in situ thermal crosslinking.
Polyamideimide (PAI) nanofibers loaded with bismaleimide (BMI) were electrospun and dispersed into a polyamic acid aqueous solution.
PAI/BMI-nanofiber-reinforced polyimide (IBNR-PI) aerogels with an interpenetrating network structure were prepared by freeze-drying and heat treatment.
The IBNR-PI aerogels possessed extremely low volume density (26 mg cm
Laser powder bed fusion (L-PBF) of metals enables the manufacturing of highly complex geometries which opens new application fields in the medical sector, especially with regard to personalized implants.
In comparison to conventional manufacturing techniques, L-PBF causes different microstructures, and thus, new challenges arise.
The main objective of this work is to investigate the influence of different manufacturing parameters of the L-PBF process on the microstructure, process-induced porosity, as well as corrosion fatigue properties of the magnesium alloy WE43 and as a reference on the titanium alloy Ti-6Al-4V.
In particular, the investigated magnesium alloy WE43 showed a strong process parameter dependence in terms of porosity (size and distribution), microstructure, corrosion rates, and corrosion fatigue properties.
Cyclic tests with increased test duration caused an especially high decrease in fatigue strength for magnesium alloy WE43.
It can be demonstrated that, due to high process-induced surface roughness, which supports locally intensified corrosion, multiple crack initiation sites are present, which is one of the main reasons for the drastic decrease in fatigue strength.
Observations were made of fractured surfaces caused by flexural and tensile fatigue tests made in polymethyl methacrylate denture base resins (PMMA).
In addition, the changes in dynamic viscoelastic and tensile properties of the materials along with fatigue propagation were investigated.
In the tensile and flexural fatigue tests, both the fractured surfaces, which had striations on their surfaces and cracks near the fractured section, closely resembled each other in appearance.
On the other hand, all of the tensile properties, such as elastic modulus, toughness and tensile strength, decreased with the increase of the number of stress cycles in the fatigue test.
The storage modulus (E') of the material decreased gradually along with fatigue propagation over the whole range of temperatures tested.
The loss modulus (E") and mechanical loss tangent (tan delta) increased slightly.
The fatigue limit of four commercial denture base resins varied widely from one product to another.
Grain boundary weakening in high-temperature environments significantly influences the fatigue crack growth mechanisms of nickel-based superalloys, introducing challenges in accurately predicting fatigue life.
In this study, a dislocation-density-based crystal plasticity phase-field (CP-PF) model is developed to simulate the fatigue crack growth behavior of the GH4169 alloy under both room and elevated temperatures.
Grain boundaries are explicitly modeled, enabling the competition between transgranular and intergranular cracking to be accurately captured.
The grain boundary separation energy and surface energy, calculated via molecular dynamics simulations, are employed as failure criteria for grain boundary and intragranular material points, respectively.
The simulation results reveal that under oxygen-free conditions, fatigue crack propagation at both room and high temperatures is governed by sustained shear slip, with crack advancement hindered by grains exhibiting low Schmid factors.
When grain boundary oxidation is introduced, increasing oxidation levels progressively degrade grain boundary strength and reduce overall fatigue resistance.
Specifically, at room temperature, oxidation shortens the duration of crack arrest near grain boundaries.
At elevated service temperatures, intensified grain boundary degradation facilitates a transition in crack growth mode from transgranular to intergranular, thereby accelerating crack propagation and exacerbating fatigue damage.
Pitting corrosion is a prominent form of localized surface damage that can significantly accelerate fatigue failure in metal components due to stress concentration effects.
Ultrasonic testing has proven to be a powerful tool for detecting the early initiation of localized corrosion.
However, most previous research has focused solely on assessing corrosion severity, lacking a quantitative link between corrosion-induced damage and structural fatigue life.
To bridge this gap, this study proposes a strategy to predict the fatigue life of Q690E steel components affected by localized corrosion by integrating ultrasonic imaging with fatigue life estimation.
A simplified semi-elliptical notch is employed to simulate localized corrosion pits in this study.
The key novelty of this work lies in correlating corrosion-induced damage with fatigue life by reconstructing the defect geometry using the total focusing imaging method (TFM).
TFM is leveraged to visualize and quantify corrosion pit geometry, providing the necessary input for fatigue analysis.
The theory of critical distance (TCD) is then applied to calculate the effective stress and predict fatigue life.
Numerical and experimental studies validate this approach, demonstrating that TFM can accurately characterize pit depth and aspect ratio for defects with widths and heights equal to or greater than one wavelength.
The predicted fatigue life falls within the four scatter bands of experimental fatigue life data, confirming that this method provides a reliable estimation of fatigue life in components affected by localized corrosion.
This model is used to understand the interrelationships of the physiological factors determining endurance performance ability during prolonged exercise.
Early studies found that marathon runners maintain a velocity in competition that corresponds to the intensity at which lactate begins to accumulate in blood and muscle [7, 8, 19].
From this observation, the concept developed that this blood lactate threshold (LT Vo2) reflects the degree of muscular stress, glycogenolysis and fatigue.
However, it was not clear whether the lactate accumulation was a result of cardiovascular limitations linked to oxygen delivery, as reflected by Vo2max [54], as opposed to metabolic factors in the exercising muscle related to the extent to which mitochondrial respiration is disturbed to maintain a given rate of O2 consumption [29, 30].
Two studies were performed to determine whether LT Vo2 was tightly coupled to Vo2max.
In one study, endurance-trained ischemic heart disease patients were observed to possess a Vo2max that was 18% below that of normal master athletes who followed the patient's training program and who displayed the same performance ability as the patients.
Both the patients and the normal men displayed an identical LT Vo2 (i.e., 37 ml/kg/min) (Fig. 2.5).
Therefore, performance was determined primarily by LT Vo2 instead of Vo2max in this situation, albeit with abnormal subjects.
In a second study we assembled two groups of competitive cyclists who were identical in Vo2max but differed by having a high or low LT Vo2 (82% vs. 66% Vo2max) [13].
When cycling at 80-88% Vo2max, the low LT group displayed more than a 2-fold higher rate of muscle glycogen use and blood lactate concentration, and as a result were able to exercise only one-half as long as the high LT group.
Performance time for a given Vo2 was clearly related to LT Vo2 instead of Vo2max (Fig. 2.6).
This is not to say that Vo2max plays no role in determining LT Vo2, because as in heart disease patients, it clearly sets the upper limit.
Indeed, we have seen that much of the variance (i.e., 31-72%) in LT Vo2 is related to Vo2max.
(Fig. 2.11.) However, improvements in performance after the first 2-3 yr of intense training are associated with improvements in LT Vo2, whereas Vo2max generally increases very little thereafter (Table 2.3).
The next question concerns the factors responsible for further increases in LT Vo2 and Performance.
Another major factor determining LT Vo2 is the muscle's Aerobic Enzyme Activity or mitochondrial respiratory capacity, as discussed in previous reviews [29, 30].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cast parts usually inherit internal defects such as micro shrinkage pores due to the manufacturing process.
In order to assess the fatigue behaviour in both finite-life and long-life fatigue regions, this paper scientifically contributes towards a defect-based fatigue design model.
Extensive fatigue and fracture mechanical tests were conducted whereby the crack initiating defect size population was fractographically evaluated.
Complementary in situ X-ray computed tomography scans before and during fatigue testing enabled an experimental estimation of the lifetime until crack initiation, acting as a significant input for the fatigue model.
A commonly applied fatigue assessment approach introduced by Tiryakioglu was modified by incorporating the long crack threshold value, which additionally enabled the assessment of the fatigue strength in the long-life fatigue regime.
The presented design concept was validated utilising the fatigue test results, which revealed a sound agreement between the experiments and the model.
Only a minor deviation of up to about five percent in case of long-life fatigue strength and up to about 9% in case of finite-lifetime were determined.
Thus, the provided extension of Tiryakioglu's approach supports a unified fatigue strength assessment of cast aluminium alloys in both the finite- and long-life regimes.
This study focuses on the fatigue behavior and bone-implant attachment for the more usual surfaces of the different CP-titanium dental implants.
The implants studied were: as-received (CTR), acid etching (AE), spark-anodization (SA), and with a grit-blasted surface (GB).
The fatigue tests were carried out at 37°C on 160 dental implants, and the stress-failure (S-N) curve was determined.
The fatigue tests showed that the grit-blasting process improved fatigue life.
Further, our aim was to assess and compare the short- and midterm bone regenerative potential and mechanical retention of the implants in bone of New Zealand rabbits.
The mechanical retention after 4 and 10 weeks of implantation was evaluated with histometric and pull-out tests, respectively, as a measure of the osseointegration of the implants.
The results demonstrated that the GB treatment produced microrough that accelerated bone tissue regeneration and increased mechanical retention in the bone bed at short periods of implantation in comparison with all other implants tested.
The GB surface produced an improvement in mechanical long-time behavior and improved bone growth.
These types of treated implants can have great potential in clinical applications, as evidenced by the outcomes of the current study.
Ultrasonic rolling is an effective technique for enhancing surface integrity, and surface integrity is closely related to fatigue performance.
The process parameters of ultrasonic rolling critically affect the improvement of surface integrity.
This study proposes an optimization method for process parameters by combining machine learning (ML) with the NSGA-II.
Five ML models were trained to establish relationships between process parameters and surface residual stress, hardness, and surface roughness by incorporating feature augmentation and physical information.
The best-performing model was selected and integrated with NSGA-II for multi-objective optimization.
Ultrasonic rolling tests based on a uniform design were performed, and a dataset was established.
The objective was to maximize surface residual stress and hardness while minimizing surface roughness.
For test specimens with an initial surface roughness of 0.54 µm, the optimized process parameters were a static pressure of 900 N, a spindle speed of 75 rpm, a feed rate of 0.19 mm/r, and rolling once.
Using optimized parameters, the surface residual stress reached -920.60 MPa, surface hardness achieved 958.23 HV, surface roughness reduced to 0.32 µm, and contact fatigue life extended to 3.02 × 10
To investigate the antioxidant property and potential ameliorating effective ingredients for high altitude-induced fatigue from Gansu Maxianhao (Pedicularis Kansuensis Maxim.).
Macroporous adsorptive resin combined with polyamide chromatographic column was used to obtain water extract (P1), high polar part (P2), iridoid glycosides part (P3) and phenylethanoid glycosides part (P4) of Gansu Maxianhao (Pedicularis Kansuensis Maxim.).
Antioxidant activity of each part was investigated employing a series of in vitro models.
Hematoxylin-eosin staining, analysis of blood biochemical parameters, along with molecular analyses examining oxidative stress makers, metabolite, metabolic enzyme and energy substance in liver, skeletal muscle and/or serum were further measured.
The results showed phenylethanoid glycosides (PhGs) exhibited more effective with 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging ability, 2-2-Azinbis (3-ehtylbenzothiazolin-6-sulfnicAcid) Diammonium Salt+ scavenging activity, hydroxyl radical scavenging activity, reducing ability and antioxidant activity to varying extents.
Under a hypobaric hypoxia attack in a hypobaric chamber (8000 m, 7 consecutive days), PhGs was administered to BALB/C mice at doses of 50, 200, 400 mg/kg and antifatigue property was evaluated using a swimming test at an altitude of 4000 m.
The results showed that PhGs of Gansu Maxianhao (Pedicularis Kansuensis Maxim.) could significantly prolong the burden swimming time of mice, reduce the hypoxia-induced oxidative stress, remove the accumulated products of metabolism, improve the energy metabolism as well as improve preservation of endogenous glycogen stores.
The ameliorating effect against altitude-induced fatigue of PhGs from Gansu Maxianhao (Pedicularis Kansuensis Maxim.) might come from the alleviation of oxidative stress, reduction of the adverse metabolic products, normalizing energy metabolism and increasing energy substances reserves.
PhGs is a potential antioxidant and novel remedy for fatigue due to high-altitude hypoxia.
The work undertaken in this paper is the comparative analysis of the accumulation of plastic strain energy in the as-received and pre-deformed (overloaded) material states, performed on the example of S420M steel.
For this reason, the low-cycle fatigue tests on S420M steel specimens were conducted under controlled deformation conditions, and both as-received (undeformed) and pre-deformed specimens were used in the tests.
The results of the low-cycle tests were analyzed in terms of dissipated energy.
This study found that pre-straining of S420M steel specimens causes a reduction in the energy of the hysteresis loop at all strain amplitude levels.
This results in a slight increase in the fatigue life of pre-strained specimens compared to as-received specimens.
Based on the analysis, it was also found that despite the different lifetimes obtained at the same strain amplitude levels, the fatigue characteristics in terms of energy of the as-received and pre-strained samples are statistically the same.
Experimental verification of the analytical models used to describe hysteresis loops confirmed their suitability for describing fatigue behavior for specimens made of steel in both the as-received and pre-strained state.
Surface condition is one of the dominant factors affecting fatigue life.
Considering the complexity of surface condition, a relatively efficient and economic approach based on surface reconstruction and interpolation method was proposed.
The effect of surface roughness on the fatigue life of 6061-T6 aluminum alloy is studied to analyze the fatigue life by surface roughness parameters.
Surface topography was simplified into a series of elliptic micro notches, and empirical formula for stress concentration factor is established based on simulation work.
Then the extraction method of surface curve is proposed to effectively represent the real surface roughness through 3D model reconstruction.
Experiment of surface roughness verified the correctness of the model.
The relationship between surface roughness and fatigue life is established and the calculated value of the fatigue life is compared with the test results.
The maximum error is 15.65%, indicating that the formula established is reasonable and effective.
A review of the main literature sources was conducted, which made it possible to systematise various techniques, methods and software for studying the fracture mechanisms of polycrystalline materials.
The principles of describing the patterns of failure surfaces based on multi-scale analysis (at the macro-, meso‑ and microlevels) were considered.
Algorithms that recognize and calculate the parameters of fatigue striations on SEM images are analysed.
They proved to be functional and capable of providing a valuable information and fractographic control.
Comminuted inferior patellar pole fractures are challenging injuries and require adequate treatment due to the extension mechanism of the knee.
A modified separate vertical fixation by wires and Titanium cables was established according to a finite element biomechanical study.
Between September 2018 and May 2021, 18 patients with inferior pole fractures of the patella were retrospectively enrolled in this study.
The results of the finite element analysis showed the concentration of stress in the intermediate vertical wire and the cerclage wire.
As a partial replacement for steel wires, Titanium cables provide less concentration of stress on the vertical wire (489.4 MPa vs 441.2 Mpa) and less cutting force on the bone (75.87 Mpa vs 53.27), which reduces the possibility of internal fixation failure and improves the stability of internal fixation.
In the clinic study, No patients experienced non-union of the fracture, loss of fracture repositioning, malunion of wounds, or wire breakage.
At the last follow-up, the average range of motion was 134.7°±11.2°, and the Lysholm Score was 90.7 ± 3.9.
The separate vertical fixation by wires and titanium cables is an effective fixation method for treating displaced, comminuted inferior pole fractures, which attributes to early exercise and better function.
The performance and mechanical properties of nickel-titanium (NiTi) instruments are influenced by factors such as cross-section, flute design, raw material, and manufacturing processes.
Many improvements have been proposed by manufacturers during the past decade to provide clinicians with safer and more efficient instruments.
The mechanical performance of NiTi alloys is sensitive to their microstructure and associated thermomechanical treatment history.
Heat treatment or thermal processing is one of the most fundamental approaches toward adjusting the transition temperature in NiTi alloy, which affects the fatigue resistance of NiTi endodontic files.
The newly developed NiTi instruments made from controlled memory wire, M-Wire (Dentsply Tulsa Dental Specialties, Tulsa, OK), or R-phase wire represent the next generation of NiTi alloys with improved flexibility and fatigue resistance.
The advantages of NiTi files for canal cleaning and shaping are decreased canal transportation and ledging, a reduced risk of file fracture, and faster and more efficient instrumentation.
The clinician must understand the nature of different NiTi raw materials and their impact on instrument performance because many new instruments are introduced on a regular basis.
This review summarizes the metallurgical properties of next-generation NiTi instruments, the impact of thermomechanical treatment on instrument flexibility, and the resistance to cyclic fatigue and torsion.
The aim of this review was to provide clinicians with the knowledge necessary for evidence-based practices, maximizing the benefits from the selection and application of NiTi rotary instruments for root canal treatment.
The present paper is focused on an experimental study of the damage-to-failure mechanism of additively manufactured 316L stainless steel specimens subjected to very high cycle fatigue (VHCF) loading.
Ultrasonic axial tension-compression tests were carried out on specimens for up to 10
Different titanium bases for implant-supported prostheses can present different mechanical behavior.
The goal of this study was to evaluate the torque before and after fatigue, the load to failure, and stress concentration of zirconia restorations cemented or notched to a titanium base.
Forty implants were included in polyurethane cylinders and divided into two groups: zirconia restoration cemented on a titanium base and zirconia restoration notched on a titanium base.
The specimens had their torque loosening and vertical misfit evaluated before and after cyclic fatigue (200 N/2 Hz/2 × 10 The cemented restorations presented less torque loosening (19.79 to 15.95 Ncm), lower vertical misfit (3.7 to 10.5 μm), lower stress concentration in the restoration (88.2 to 99.8 MPa), and higher fracture load (451.3 to 390.8 N) than notched restorations.
The presence of a cement layer between the restoration and titanium base reduced the susceptibility to abutment screw loosening, improved the resistance to compressive load, and reduced the stress concentration in the restoration.
Composite structures are made of multidirectional (MD) fiber-reinforced polymer (FRP) composite laminates, which fail due to multiple damages in matrix, interface, and fiber constituents at different scales.
The yield point of a unidirectional FRP composite is assumed as the lamina strength limit representing the damage initiation phenomena, while yielding of MD composites in structural applications are not quantified due to the complexity of the sequence of damage evolutions in different laminas dependent on their angle and specification.
This paper proposes a new method to identify the yield point of MD composite structures based on the evolution of the damage dissipation energy (DDE).
Such a characteristic evolution curve is computed using a validated finite element model with a mesoscale damage-based constitutive model that accounts for different matrix and fiber failure modes in angle lamina.
The yield point of composite structures is identified to correspond to a 5% increase in the initial slope of the DDE evolution curve.
The yield points of three antisymmetric MD FRP composite structures under flexural loading conditions are established based on Hashin unidirectional (UD) criteria and the energy-based criterion.
It is shown that the new energy concept provides a significantly larger safe limit of yield for MD composite structures compared to UD criteria, in which the accumulation of energy dissipated due to all damage modes is less than 5% of the fracture energy required for the structural rupture.
From the treatment of damaged teeth to replacing missing teeth, dental biomaterials cover the scientific interest of many fields.
Dental biomaterials are one of the implants whose effective life depends vastly on their material and manufacturing techniques.
The purpose of this review is to summarize the important aspects for metallic dental implants from biomedical, mechanical and materials science perspectives.
The review article will focus on five major aspects as mentioned below.
Tooth anatomy: Maximizing the implant performance depends on proper understanding of human tooth anatomy and the failure behavior of the implants.
Major parts from tooth anatomy including saliva characteristics are explored in this section.
Wear mechanisms: The prominent wear mechanisms having a high impact on dental wear are abrasive, adhesive, fatigue and corrosion wear.
To imitate the physiological working condition of dental implants, reports on the broad range of mastication force and various composition of artificial saliva have been included in this section, which can affect the tribo-corrosion behavior of dental implants.
Dental implants classifications: The review paper includes a dedicated discussion on major dental implants types and their details for better understanding their applicability and characteristics.
Implant materials: As of today, the most established dental implant materials are SS316L, cobalt chrome alloy and titanium.
Detailed discussion on their material properties, microstructures, phase transformations and chemical compositions have been discussed here.
Manufacturing techniques: In terms of different production methods, the lost wax casting method as traditional manufacturing is considered.
Selective Laser Melting (SLM) and Directed Energy Deposition (DED) as additive manufacturing techniques (AM) have been discussed.
For AM, the relationships between process-property-performance details have been explored briefly.
The effectiveness of different manufacturing techniques was compared based on porosity distribution, mechanical and biomechanical properties.
Despite having substantial research available on dental implants, there is a lack of systematic reviews to present a holistic viewpoint combining state-of-the-art from biomedical, mechanical, materials science and manufacturing perspectives.
This review article attempts to combine a wide variety of analyzing approaches from those interdisciplinary fields to deliver deeper insights to researchers both in academia and industry to develop next-generation dental implants.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of heat treatment on the cyclic fatigue resistance, thermal behavior and microstructural changes of K3 NiTi rotary instruments.
Twelve control (as-received) and 12 experimental (heat-treated) K3 NiTi rotary instruments were compared in this study.
Those experimental K3 instruments were heated in a furnace for 30 min at 450°C and then quenched in water.
The cyclic fatigue resistance was measured with a fatigue tester.
The thermal characteristic and the microstructures of both instruments were investigated by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), respectively.
There was a significant increase in the cyclic fatigue resistance between the heat-treated instruments and the as-received instruments (T-test, p < 0.05).
DSC showed that the as-received and heat-treated samples were different, with an increased Af (austenite-finish temperature) for the latter.
TEM analysis revealed that both as-received and heat-treated instruments were composed mainly of an austenite phase.
However, the heat-treated samples had an increased appearance of larger grains, twinning martensite, TiO2 surface layer and a Ni-rich inner layer.
Heat treatment increased the cyclic fatigue resistance of NiTi files and changed the thermal behavior of the instruments without marked changes in the constituting phases of NiTi alloy.
Modular hip prostheses are increasing in variety and utilization.
Component stability, high endurance limit, and minimal particulate debris generation are critical for long-term clinical success.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the fatigue response and evaluate the in vitro potential for component motion and wear of the S-ROM¿, a Ti-6Al-4V hip prothesis with a modular design based on a Morse taper connection.
A fatigue jib was designed to simulate fixation of the device at the sleeve-bone interface only with distal support mainly against the lateral endosteal cortex.
Two series of tests were performed in air at room temperature: one with direct vertical loading (to produce high bending moments in the coronal plane) and one with a compounding loading angle directed at 15 degrees out-of-plane (to include torsional physiological loads).
Applied loads using a servohydraulic test machine ranged from 5 x BW (body weight) to 9 x BW (1 x BW = 73 kg, approximately 160 lb) at 10 Hz on an Instron apparatus.
No mechanical failures were observed on the 11-mm size stems below 6 x BW for in-plane vertical loading, and at or below 7 x BW for out-of-plane loading.
Using displacement monitoring with a sensitivity of 35 mum, no measurable slippage or relative motion was detected between the stem and sleeve when they were properly assembled.
Examination of the contact areas with scanning electron microscopy releaved random surface modification (an indication of fretting or burnishing) with occasional evidence of transfer of material between stem and sleeve.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The fatigue crack initiation and growth characteristics in 7050-T7451 aluminum alloy butt joints subjected to different stress ratios and owing to friction stir welding (FSW) were investigated using fatigue tests for stress ratios of 0.1, 0.3, and 0.5.
The difference between the fatigue crack initiation in the base material (BM) and FSW joints, related to coarse secondary phases, was explored using scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Relatively small amounts of microdamage have been suggested to have a major effect on the mechanical properties of bone.
A significant reduction in mechanical properties (e.g. modulus) can occur even before the appearance of microcracks.
This study uses a novel non-linear microdamaging finite-element (FE) algorithm to simulate the low-cycle fatigue behavior of high-density trabecular bone.
We aimed to investigate if diffuse microdamage accumulation and concomitant modulus reduction, without the need for complete trabecular strut fracture, may be an underlining mechanism for low-cycle fatigue failure (defined as a 30% reduction in apparent modulus).
A microCT constructed FE model was subjected to a single cycle monotonic compression test, and constant and variable amplitude loading scenarios to study the initiation and accumulation of low-cycle fatigue microdamage.
Microcrack initiation was simulated using four damage criteria: 30%, 40%, 50% and 60% reduction in bone element modulus (el-MR).
Evaluation of structural (apparent) damage using the four different tissue level damage criteria resulted in specimen fatigue failure at 72, 316, 969 and 1518 cycles for the 30%, 40%, 50% and 60% el-MR models, respectively.
Simulations based on the 50% el-MR model were consistent with previously published experimental findings.
A strong, significant non-linear, power law relationship was found between cycles to failure (N) and effective strain (Deltasigma/E(0)): N=1.394x10(-25)(Deltasigma/E(0))(-12.17), r(2)=0.97, p<0.0001.
The results suggest that microdamage and microcrack propagation, without the need for complete trabecular strut fracture, are mechanisms for high-density trabecular bone failure.
Furthermore, the model is consistent with previous numerical fatigue simulations indicating that microdamage to a small number of trabeculae results in relatively large specimen modulus reductions and rapid failure.
We undertook the following study to quantitatively assess the changes in porcine bioprosthetic heart valve (PBHV) fiber architecture to increasing levels of fatigue damage using an in vitro accelerated test model.
PBHVs were subjected to 0-500 million test cycles at 16 Hz, and small-angle light scattering (SALS) was used to quantify the gross fiber structure of the cusps.
The degree of gross fiber alignment remained essentially constant from 0 to 500 million cycles over the entire cusp.
Increasing fiber orientation randomness, indicative of local damage, was observed only in the vicinity of the nodulus of Arantii after 50 million cycles.
The SALS data from the damaged regions suggested shearing between fiber layers, which may be part of the failure process and accelerates valve failure.
Histological analysis revealed a relatively intact gross fiber structure with the collagen fiber crimp remaining, although delamination and de-registration of the crimp was also observed.
Accelerated tested PBHVs also demonstrated a pronounced 'sagging', which began at the earliest cycle number tested (1.4 million cycles) and whose rate decreased logarithmically with cycle number.
Results of this study suggest that PBHV cusps can alter their shape without any visually apparent material yielding or fiber failure under continual cyclic loading.
Further, while most of the 4 mmHg pressure fixed PBHV's gross fiber architecture remains unchanged after 500 million cycles of accelerated testing, localized accumulated fiber damage can occur on a sub-visual structural level as early as 50 million cycles.
The aim of this paper is to map the corrosion fatigue characteristics of Ti-6Al-4V alloy through the evaluation of the corrosion fatigue initiation and failure mechanisms.
The study included the effect of the stress concentration factor at very high
This study investigates premature fatigue failures in three EA1N steel axles from permanent magnet direct-drive locomotives during wheel-seat bending tests.
Complete fracture occurred in one axle at 3 million cycles, and in the other two axles, cracks appeared and were observed through magnetic particle detection at 3.5 million and 1.6 million cycles, respectively.
A comprehensive failure analysis was conducted through metallurgical examination, fractography, mechanical testing, residual stress measurement, and finite element analysis.
The fractographic results revealed fractures consistently initiated at the wheel-seat to axle-body transition arc, exhibiting characteristic ratchet marks and beach patterns.
The premature fracture mechanism was identified as a high-stress fatigue fracture.
The residual stress measurements showed detrimental tensile stresses at the surface.
Coupled with the operating stress, the stress on the axle exceeds fatigue strength, which accelerates the initiation and propagation of fatigue cracks.
Based on these observations, the failure mechanism was identified, and preventive methods were proposed to reduce the risk of recurrence of the in-service axles.
Implantoplasty (IP) is used in dental implants with peri-implantitis and aims to remove threads and polish rough surfaces in order to prevent bacterial colonization.
As a result of this procedure, implant strength might be compromised.
We tested 20 tapered screw-shaped Ti6Al4V dental implants with a simulated bone loss of 50%.
Ten implants underwent IP and 10 served as controls.
The endurance limit of structural mechanical components is affected by the residual stress state, which depends strongly on the manufacturing process.
In general, compressive residual stresses tend to result in an increased fatigue strength.
Post-manufacturing processes such as shot peening or vibratory finishing may achieve such a compressive residual stress state.
But within complex components, manufacturing-process-based imperfections severely limit the fatigue strength.
Thus, the interactions of imperfections, residual stress state and material strength are key aspects in fatigue design.
In this work, cast steel and aluminium alloys are investigated, each of them in vibratory finished and polished surface condition.
A layer-based fatigue assessment concept is extended towards stable effective mean stress state considering the elastic-plastic material behaviour.
Murakami's concept was applied to incorporate the effect of hardness change and residual stress state.
Residual stress relaxation is determined by elastic-plastic simulations invoking a combined hardening model.
If the effective stress ratio within the local layer-based fatigue strength is evaluated as critical distance value, a sound calculation of fatigue strength can be achieved.
Summing up, the layer-based fatigue strength design is extended and features an enhanced understanding of the effective stabilized mean stress state during cyclic loading.
Effective notch stress (ENS) approaches have many application prospects in fatigue damage assessments; however, an ENS can only be obtained by conducting complex and time-consuming numerical analyses, deterring many engineers from applying such an approach.
In terms of the rib-deck weld in orthotropic steel decks (OSDs), predictive formulae for determining the ENS concentration factors (ENS-based SCFs) have been proposed; however, the effect of asphalt surfacing is not involved, which limits their applications in practical engineering.
In the present study, refined finite element (FE) models, including asphalt surfacing, were developed to obtain the ENS-based SCFs which could be applied to practical engineering.
Parametric analyses were conducted to investigate the effect of the transverse loading position, the combined effect of the transverse loading position and asphalt surfacing, and the effect of the temperature of the asphalt surfacing.
To evaluate the effect of pH of storage medium on slow crack growth (SCG) parameters of dental porcelains.
Two porcelains were selected: with (UD) and without (VM7) leucite particles, in order to assess if the microstructure would affect the response of the material to the pH variation.
Disc specimens were produced following manufacturers' instructions.
Specimens were stored in artificial saliva in pHs 3.5, 7.0 or 10.0 for 10 days and after that the fatigue parameters (n: SCG susceptibility coefficient and sigma(0): scaling parameter) were obtained by the dynamic fatigue test using the same pH of storage.
Microstructural analysis of the materials was also performed.
For VM7, the values of n obtained in the different pHs were similar and varied from 29.9 to 31.2.
The sigma(0) value obtained in pH 7.0 for VM7 was higher than that obtained in the other pHs, which were similar.
For porcelain UD, n values obtained in pHs 7.0 and 10.0 were similar (40.8 and 39.6, respectively), and higher than that obtained in pH 3.5 (26.5).
With respect to sigma(0), the value obtained for porcelain UD in pH 10.0 was lower than those obtained in pHs 3.5 and 7.0, which were similar.
The effect of pH on the stress corrosion susceptibility (n) depended on the porcelain studied.
While the n value of VM7 was not affected by the pH, UD presented lower n value in acid pH.
For both porcelains, storage in acid or basic pH resulted in strength degradation.
Intense and excessive exercise-induced fatigue has become an important health issue and can damage intestinal health.
Deer blood, as a food byproduct with nutritional value, has been found to restore physical strength.
However, little is known about the antifatigue effect of fermented deer blood (FDB) on intense exercise mice.
The purpose of the present study is to investigate the antifatigue effect of FDB, and whether this effect is correlated with the altered small intestinal microbiota and metabolites in exercise mice.
In this study, 5-week-old male C57BL/6J mice are given treadmill exercise with or without FDB supplementation (30 and 150 mg/kg/d) for 3 weeks.
FDB significantly reduces metabolic byproduct accumulation, liver and intestinal damage, and enhances glycogen storage and antioxidant capacity in intense exercise mice.
Moreover, FDB restructures the small intestinal microbiota by increasing the abundance of probiotics and butyric acid producing bacteria and decreasing the abundance of pathogenic bacteria.
FDB also regulates the levels of metabolites involved in TCA cycle and amino acid metabolism in urine and small intestine content.
Correlation analysis shows that FDB-modulated microbiota is highly associated with its antifatigue effect.
FDB may ameliorate fatigue and intestinal injury through targeting small intestinal microbiota.
This paper forms part of an ongoing investigation into the tools required in linear elastic fracture mechanics (LEFM) for evaluating the durability of components designed for limited life replacement.
In this study, we demonstrate that the USAF 'Characteristic
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is damage to the spinal cord caused by the trauma or disease that results in compromised or loss of body function.
Subsequent to SCI in humans, many individuals have residual motor and sensory deficits that impair functional performance and quality of life.
The available treatments for SCI are rehabilitation therapy, activity-based therapies, and pharmacological treatment using antioxidants and their agonists.
Among pharmacological treatments, the most efficient and commonly used antioxidant for experimental SCI treatment is melatonin, an indolamine secreted by pineal gland at night.
Melatonin's receptor-independent free radical scavenging action and its broad-spectrum antioxidant activity makes it an ideal antioxidant to protect tissue from oxidative stress-induced secondary damage after SCI.
Owing to the limitations of an activity-based therapy and antioxidant treatment singly on the functional recovery and oxidative stress-induced secondary damages after SCI, a melatonin plus exercise treatment may be a more effective therapy for SCI.
As suggested herein, supplementation with melatonin in conjunction with exercise not only would improve the functional recovery by enhancing the beneficial effects of exercise but would reduce the secondary tissue damage simultaneously.
Finally, melatonin may protect against exercise-induced fatigue and impairments.
In this review, based on the documented evidence regarding the beneficial effects of melatonin, activity-based therapy and the combination of both on functional recovery, as well as reduction of secondary damage caused by oxidative stress after SCI, we suggest the melatonin combined with exercise would be a novel neurorehabilitative strategy for the faster recovery after SCI.
Revised spinal surgery is needed when there is a broken pedicle screw in the patient.
This study investigated the pedicle screw breakage by conducting retrieval analyses of broken pedicle screws from 16 patients clinically and by performing stress analyses in the posterolateral fusion computationally using finite element (FE) models.
Fracture surface of screws was studied by scanning electron microscope (SEM).
The FE model of the posterolateral fusion with the screw showed that screws on the caudal side had larger axial stress than those on the cephalic side, supporting the clinical findings that 75% of the patients had the screw breakage on the caudal side.
SEM fractography showed that all broken screws exhibited beach marks or striations on the fractured surface, indicating fatigue failure.
Screws of patients with spinal fracture showed fatigue striations and final ductile fracture around the edge.
Among the 16 patients who had broken pedicle screws 69% of them achieved bone union in the bone graft, showing that bone union in the bone graft did not warrant the prevention of screw breakage.
This study was to investigate the mode of fracture of ProTaper rotary instruments after clinical use and to compare stereomicroscopy with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to determine which is the better method for establishing the mode of material failure.
In all, 100 fractured ProTaper instruments were examined under stereomicroscope for the presence of plastic deformation along the cutting edge near the fracture site.
Fractographic and longitudinal examinations were carried out at high-power magnification with SEM.
Stereomicroscopy revealed 88 flexural cases and 12 torsional cases.
Fractomicrographs verified 91 flexural cases with fatigue striations and three torsional cases with circular abrasion marks.
Six instruments showed characteristics of both flexural and torsional failures.
Cracks, microcracks, and pittings were common findings on longitudinal micrographs.
Our study demonstrated that inspecting the fractured surface at high-power magnification by SEM is a better method to reveal the mode of NiTi rotary instrument separation.
In order to address potential fatigue fractures at the valve stem-neck junction during engine operations, surface mechanical rolling treatment (SMRT) was introduced to enhance the rotary bending fatigue (RBF) performance of 4Cr14Ni14W2Mo engine valve steel in this study.
The results indicate that the increasing number of rolling passes induces a modified surface layer characterized by refined grains and dislocations, increased hardness, and compressive residual stress (RS).
SMRT specimens exhibited improved tensile strength but plasticity performance was decreased.
At room temperature (RT) about 25 °C, the fatigue limit at 1 × 10
Daily activities subject our tendons to accumulation of sub-rupture fatigue injury which can lead to tendon rupture.
Consequently, tendinopathies account for over 30% of musculoskeletal consultations.
We adopted a multidisciplinary approach to determine the role of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the pathogenesis of tendinopathy and impaired healing of ruptured tendons.
We have been investigating three main areas: (i) the pathogenesis of tendon degeneration; (ii) approaches to promoting remodeling of sub-rupture fatigue injuries; and the (iii) role of the ECM in promoting scarless tendon healing.
In this Kappa Delta Young Investigator award paper, we describe the key discoveries made in each of our three research areas of focus.
Briefly, we discovered that sub-rupture fatigue damage can accumulate from just one bout of fatigue loading.
Furthermore, any attempt to repair the fatigue damage diminishes as the severity of induced damage increases.
We have utilized exercise to develop animal models of exercise-led degeneration and exercise-led repair of sub-rupture fatigue damage injuries, wherein underlying mechanisms can be uncovered, thereby overcoming a major hurdle to development of therapeutics.
Since damage accumulation ultimately leads to rupture that is characterized by formation of a mechanically inferior scar, we have used the MRL/MpJ mouse to evaluate the role of the systemic environment and the local tendon environment in driving regeneration to identify new therapeutic pathways to promote scarless healing.
Our data suggests that the therapeutic potential of the MRL/MpJ provisional ECM should be further explored as it may harness biological and structural mechanisms to promote scarless healing. © 2018 Orthopaedic Research Society.
J Orthop Res 36:3115-3124, 2018.
Aging involves seemingly paradoxical changes in energy metabolism.
Molecular damage accumulation increases cellular energy expenditure, yet whole-body energy expenditure remains stable or decreases with age.
We resolve this apparent contradiction by positioning the brain as the mediator and broker in the organismal energy economy.
As somatic tissues accumulate damage over time, costly intracellular stress responses are activated, causing aging or senescent cells to secrete cytokines that convey increased cellular energy demand (hypermetabolism) to the brain.
To conserve energy in the face of a shrinking energy budget, the brain deploys energy conservation responses, which suppress low-priority processes, producing fatigue, physical inactivity, blunted sensory capacities, immune alterations and endocrine 'deficits'.
We term this cascade the brain-body energy conservation (BEC) model of aging.
The BEC outlines (1) the energetic cost of cellular aging, (2) how brain perception of senescence-associated hypermetabolism may drive the phenotypic manifestations of aging and (3) energetic principles underlying the modifiability of aging trajectories by stressors and geroscience interventions.
The use of narrow titanium dental implants (NDI) for small ridges, reduced interdental space, or missing lateral incisors can be a viable option when compared to the conventional wider dental implants.
Furthermore, in many cases, standard diameter implant placement may not be possible without grafting procedures, which increases the healing time, cost, and morbidity.
The aim of this study was to analyze the mechanical viability of the current narrow implants and how narrow implants can be improved.
Different commercially available implants (n = 150) were tested to determine maximum strength, strain to fracture, microhardness, residual stress, and fatigue obtaining the stress-number of cycles to fracture (SN) curve.
Fractography was studied by scanning electron microscopy.
The results showed that when the titanium was hardened by the addition of 15% of Zr or 12% cold worked, the fatigue limit was higher than the commercially pure grade 4 Ti without hardening treatment.
Grade 4 titanium without hardening treatment in narrow dental implants can present fractures by fatigue.
These narrow implants are subjected to high mechanical stresses and the mechanical properties of titanium do not meet the minimal requirements, which lead to frequent fractures.
New hardening treatments allow for the mechanical limitations of conventional narrow implants to be overcome in dynamic conditions.
These hardening treatments allow for the design of narrow dental implants with enhanced fatigue life and long-term behavior.
Measuring the fatigue crack growth rate via the crack growth experiment (
To estimate prevalence and explore potential causes and consequences of compassion satisfaction and compassion fatigue in UK emergency medicine consultants.
Cross-sectional e-survey to all UK NHS emergency medicine consultants (n=1317) including Professional Quality of Life (ProQOL) (compassion satisfaction/fatigue), followed by interviews with consultants scoring above (n=6) and below (n=6) predefined ProQOL thresholds. 681 (52%) consultants responded.
Most (98%) reported at least 'average' compassion satisfaction.
Higher scores were associated with type of workplace (designated trauma centres faring better) and number of years worked as a consultant (gradually worsen over time, except 20 years onwards when it improves).
Consultants with lower (worse) compassion satisfaction scores were more likely to report being irritable with patients or colleagues and reducing their standards of care (a third reported these behaviours at least monthly) and were more likely to intend to retire early (59% had such plans).
Key features distinguishing 'satisfied' from 'fatigued' interviewed consultants included having strategies to deal with the high work intensities associated with their role and having positive views of the team within which they worked.
The degree of variety in their roles and the ability to maintain empathy for their patients were also distinguishing features between these groups.
Findings support an urgent review of workforce and resources in emergency medicine and suggest that a multifactorial approach to identification, prevention and treatment of occupational stress in the workforce is required that considers individual, job and organisational factors, particularly those that impact on perceived control and support at work.
Shot peening is one of the most favored surface treatment processes mostly applied on large-scale engineering components to enhance their fatigue performance.
Due to the stochastic nature and the mutual interactions of process parameters and the partially contradictory effects caused on the component's surface (increase in residual stress, work-hardening, and increase in roughness), there is demand for capable and user-friendly simulation models to support the responsible engineers in developing optimal shot-peening processes.
The present paper contains a user-friendly Finite Element Method-based 2D model covering all major process parameters.
Its novelty and scientific breakthrough lie in its capability to consider various size distributions and elastoplastic material properties of the shots.
Therewith, the model is capable to provide insight into the influence of every individual process parameter and their interactions.
Despite certain restrictions arising from its 2D nature, the model can be accurately applied for qualitative or comparative studies and processes' assessments to select the most promising one(s) for the further experimental investigations.
The model is applied to a high-strength steel grade used for automotive leaf springs considering real shot size distributions.
The results reveal that the increase in shot velocity and the impact angle increase the extent of the residual stresses but also the surface roughness.
The usage of elastoplastic material properties for the shots has been proved crucial to obtain physically reasonable results regarding the component's behavior.
Microdamage in bone tissue is typically studied using destructive, two-dimensional histological techniques.
Contrast-enhanced micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) was recently demonstrated to enable non-destructive, three-dimensional (3-D) detection of microdamage in machined cortical and trabecular bone specimens in vitro.
However, the accumulation of microdamage in whole bones is influenced by variations in the magnitude and mode of loading due to the complex whole bone morphology.
Therefore, the objective of this study was to detect the presence, spatial location, and accumulation of fatigue microdamage in whole rat femora in vitro using micro-CT with a BaSO(4) contrast agent.
Microdamage was detected and observed to accumulate at specific spatial locations within the cortex of femora loaded in cyclic three-point bending to a 5% or 10% reduction in secant modulus.
The ratio of the segmented BaSO(4) stain volume (SV) to the total volume (TV) of cortical bone was adopted as a measure of damage.
The amount of microdamage measured by micro-CT (SV/TV) was significantly greater for both loaded groups compared to the control group (p<0.05), but the difference between loaded groups was not statistically significant.
At least one distinct region of microdamage, as indicated by the segmented SV, was observed in 85% of loaded specimens.
A specimen-specific finite element model confirmed elevated tensile principal strains localized in regions of tissue corresponding to the accumulated microdamage.
These regions were not always located where one might expect a priori based upon Euler-Bernoulli beam theory, demonstrating the utility of contrast-enhanced micro-CT for non-destructive, 3-D detection of fatigue microdamage in whole bones in vitro.
We report a case of fracture at 2 years after implantation of a 50-kGy moderately cross-linked ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene liner with an extended lip (Marathon, DePuy, Warsaw, IN).
The extended lip section had fractured.
The liner showed no oxidation.
The articular surface was grossly deformed, likely due to wear, creep, and/or plastic deformation, and the liner showed no recovery of machining marks upon melting, indicating that some wear had occurred.
Electron microscopy revealed fatigue striations on the fracture surface.
The likely cause of failure was femoral neck impingement-induced wear and fatigue on the liner.
Tendinopathy is a common and progressive musculoskeletal disease.
Increased apoptosis is an end-stage tendinopathy manifestation, but its contribution to the pathology of the disease is unknown.
A previously established in vivo model of fatigue damage accumulation shows that increased apoptosis is correlated with the severity of induced tendon damage, even in early onset of the disease, supporting its implication in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Consequently, this study aimed to determine: (1) whether apoptosis could be inhibited after fatigue damage and (2) whether its inhibition could lead to remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM) and pericellular matrix (PCM), to ultimately improve the mechanical properties of fatigue-damaged tendons.
The working hypothesis was that, despite the low vascular nature of the tendon, apoptosis would be inhibited, prompting increased production of matrix proteins and restoring tendon mechanical properties.
Rats received 2 or 5 d of systemic pan-caspase inhibitor (Q-VD-OPh) or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) carrier control injections starting immediately prior to fatigue loading and were sacrificed at days 7 and 14 post-fatigue-loading.
Systemic pan-caspase inhibition for 2 d led to a surprising increase in apoptosis, but inhibition for 5 d increased the population of live cells that could repair the fatigue damage.
Further analysis of the 5 d group showed that effective inhibition led to an increased population of cells producing ECM and PCM proteins, although typically in conjunction with oxidative stress markers.
Ultimately, inhibition of apoptosis led to further deterioration in mechanical properties of fatigue-damaged tendons.
The purpose of this study was to compare the biomechanical attributes of patella fracture fixation with either anterior plating utilizing two parallel, longitudinal 2.0 mm plates technique versus a cannulated screw tension band technique.
Five matched pairs (ten specimens) of fresh frozen cadavers were utilized.
A transverse patella fracture (OTA 34C1.1) was fixed using either two 4.0 mm cannulated screw anterior tension band (CATB) or with two 2.0 mm stainless steel non-locking plates along the anterior cortex secured with 2.4 mm cortical screws traversing the fracture site.
Specimens underwent 1000 cycles of simulated active knee range of motion before load to failure destructive testing.
During cyclic loading there were no failures in the plate fixation group, and 2 out of 5 specimens catastrophically failed in the CATB group (p = 0.22).
Average fracture displacement at the end of fatigue testing was 0.96 mm in the plate fixation group and 2.72 mm in the CATB group (p = 0.18).
The specimens that withstood cyclic testing underwent a destructive load.
Mean load to failure for the plate fixation specimens was 1286 N, which was not significantly different from the CATB group mean of 1175 N (p = 0.48).
The mechanism of failure in the plate fixation cohort was uniformly via a secondary vertical patella fracture around the plates in all five specimens.
In the CATB group, the mechanism of failure was via wire elongation and backing out of the screws.
Patella fixation with anterior plating technique statistically performed equivalent to cannulated screw anterior tension band in ultimate load to failure strength and fatigue endurance under cyclical loading.
No failures were observed cyclic simulated active range of motion in the anterior plate group.
There was a trend towards improved fatigue endurance in the plate fixation group, however this did not reach statistical significance.
We believe plate fixation technique represents a low-profile implant option for treatment of transverse patella fractures, which may allow for early active range of motion, and these data support biomechanical equivalency to standard of care.
The stress state of the primary circuit main pipeline is very complex mixed constant stress and periodic cyclic stress during the operation of nuclear power plants, which often affects the failure behavior of the stainless steel (SS) pipe.
The fatigue behavior of 304LN SS under mixed constant stress and cyclic stress was investigated, and it was found that the coupling effect of constant stress and cyclic stress has a significant collaborative acceleration on the fatigue behavior.
The research results showed that the cracks in the 304LN SS did not propagate even after 78 days under both constant load conditions of 5 KN and 7.5 KN, while the crack growth rate (CGR) of the specimen increased by about an order of magnitude when coupled with a cyclic fatigue load.
The fatigue life of 304LN SS was the longest under 200 °C high-temperature water, and its life was roughly the same under 250 °C and 300 °C water.
In a 300 °C high-temperature water environment, the fatigue life under the coupling of constant stress and cyclic fatigue stress is significantly lower than that under symmetric cyclic stress alone.
There is a synergistic acceleration effect on the fatigue life of 304LN SS when constant stress is coupled with periodic cyclic stress, which is attributed to the combined effect of a corrosion environment and mechanical factors.
Magnesium alloys have been recently developed as biodegradable implant materials, yet there has been no study concerning their corrosion fatigue properties under cyclic loading.
In this study the die-cast AZ91D (A for aluminum 9%, Z for zinc 1% and D for a fourth phase) and extruded WE43 (W for yttrium 4%, E for rare earth mischmetal 3%) alloys were chosen to evaluate their fatigue and corrosion fatigue behaviors in simulated body fluid (SBF).
The die-cast AZ91D alloy indicated a fatigue limit of 50MPa at 10⁷ cycles in air compared to 20MPa at 10⁶ cycles tested in SBF at 37°C.
A fatigue limit of 110MPa at 10⁷ cycles in air was observed for extruded WE43 alloy compared to 40MPa at 10⁷ cycles tested in SBF at 37°C.
The fatigue cracks initiated from the micropores when tested in air and from corrosion pits when tested in SBF, respectively.
The overload zone of the extruded WE43 alloy exhibited a ductile fracture mode with deep dimples, in comparison to a brittle fracture mode for the die-cast AZ91D.
The corrosion rate of the two experimental alloys increased under cyclic loading compared to that in the static immersion test.
Some biomedical components involve the use of materials in microscopic quantities, i.e. in section sizes which are of the same order of magnitude as microstructural features in the material, such as grains.
The mechanical behaviour of the material may be different when used in these quantities, compared to its behaviour in macroscopic amounts.
An example of a microscopic component is the cardiovascular stent.
To ensure the integrity of the stent during deployment and subsequent use, the designer must be able to simulate possible failure modes, i.e. monotonic fracture and fatigue, and the effect of stress concentrations.
We carried out tests on specimens of 316L stainless steel, with and without stress concentrations.
We found a significant size effect, in which the behaviour of these microscopic specimens was different from that of larger, macroscopic specimens.
Microscopic specimens had lower tensile strengths and higher ductility.
Under cyclic loading, the material's behaviour at large numbers of cycles was independent of specimen size, but the microscopic specimens were inferior at smaller numbers of cycles to failure.
Fatigue limits for the notched specimens could be predicted using an existing theory (the Theory of Critical Distances) but parameter values were different at the macro- and micro-scale.
Thus, data from conventional, macroscopic specimens cannot be used to predict the behaviour of this material when used for microscopic components.
Mechanical working and annealing strongly affected the tensile strength and ductility, but had no significant effect on fatigue behaviour.
Modelling and numerical simulation - based on the framework of the Local Interaction Simulation Approach - was developed to have more insight into nonlinear attributes of guided ultrasonic waves propagating in fatigued metallic materials.
Various sources of nonlinearity were considered in this modelling work, with particular emphases on higher-order harmonic generation and accumulation of nonlinearity along wave propagation.
The material hyper-elasticity was considered in the model using an energy density approach based on the Landau-Lifshitz formulation; and the "breathing" motion pattern of a fatigue crack in the material was interrogated using a spring model.
Upon the successful validation with the model prepared in the commercial software based on the Finite Element Methods, two scenarios were comparatively investigated, i.e. the lower and higher frequency regime.
In the first case propagation of a basic symmetric mode pair was simulated using the model to observe a cumulative characteristic of the second harmonic mode with nonlinear hyper-elastic material definition upon appropriate selection of excitation frequency.
In the second case, the higher-order symmetric mode pair was excited according to the "internal resonance" conditions, revealing a strong dependence of manifested nonlinearity on numerical parameters.
Moreover, it was shown that with the use of the wave from the low frequency regime it was easier to differentiate later stages of the crack development, being in contrary to waves in the high frequency regime, which allowed to clearly observe early stages of the crack expansion.
Such outcome lays the foundation to develop the damage detection and monitoring scheme in the field of Structural Health Monitoring based on utilising the nonlinear features of guided ultrasonic waves.
Forest mortality constitutes a major uncertainty in projections of climate impacts on terrestrial ecosystems and carbon-cycle feedbacks.
Recent drought-induced, widespread forest die-offs highlight that climate change could accelerate forest mortality with its diverse and potentially severe consequences for the global carbon cycle, ecosystem services, and biodiversity.
How trees die during drought over multiple years remains largely unknown and precludes mechanistic modeling and prediction of forest die-off with climate change.
Here, we examine the physiological basis of a recent multiyear widespread die-off of trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) across much of western North America. Using observations from both native trees while they are dying and a rainfall exclusion experiment on mature trees, we measure hydraulic performance over multiple seasons and years and assess pathways of accumulated hydraulic damage.
We test whether accumulated hydraulic damage can predict the probability of tree survival over 2 years.
We find that hydraulic damage persisted and increased in dying trees over multiple years and exhibited few signs of repair.
This accumulated hydraulic deterioration is largely mediated by increased vulnerability to cavitation, a process known as cavitation fatigue.
Furthermore, this hydraulic damage predicts the probability of interyear stem mortality.
Contrary to the expectation that surviving trees have weathered severe drought, the hydraulic deterioration demonstrated here reveals that surviving regions of these forests are actually more vulnerable to future droughts due to accumulated xylem damage.
As the most widespread tree species in North America, increasing vulnerability to drought in these forests has important ramifications for ecosystem stability, biodiversity, and ecosystem carbon balance.
Our results provide a foundation for incorporating accumulated drought impacts into climate-vegetation models.
Finally, our findings highlight the critical role of drought stress accumulation and repair of stress-induced damage for avoiding plant mortality, presenting a dynamic and contingent framework for drought impacts on forest ecosystems.
Microdamage, in the form of small cracks, may accumulate in trabecular bone loaded in fatigue.
Specimens of bovine trabecular bone were loaded in compressive fatigue at one of four normalized stresses and loading was stopped after the specimens reached one of six maximum strains.
Microdamage was identified using a fluorochrome staining technique, and microdamage parameters, including the number of damaged trabeculae and the damaged area fraction, were measured.
No microdamage was observed during loading to strains below the yield strain; at higher strains, all microdamage parameters increased with increasing maximum compressive strain.
Few significant differences were observed in the type or amount of microdamage accumulation between specimens loaded to the same maximum strain at different normalized stresses; however, more trabecular fractures were observed at high numbers of cycles, which corresponded to low normalized stresses.
In the remanufacturing evaluation process of used spindles, the remaining life of each type is very different due to the differences in the original process, quality, and use conditions.
Researching the prediction and evaluation of the remaining life of used spindles has essential engineering significance for improving the accuracy and economics of remanufacturability assessment.
Aiming at the fatigue fracture, wear and excessive deformation of the wasted spindle, and considering the factors affecting crack closure and crack development, a residual life prediction evaluation model based on a nonlinear continuous fatigue damage model was proposed.
Take the spindle of CAK5085 CNC lathe of a machine tool company as an example to evaluate its remaining life.
The accuracy and feasibility of the modified model are verified by comparing the data of the test with the calculated results of the model.
The results show that the proposed prediction model can calculate a more accurate stress-life curve, which provides a theoretical basis for the life prediction of remanufactured parts.
Previous studies have postulated that ultrastructural changes may alter the pattern and capacity of microdamage accumulation in bone.
Using an osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) mouse model, this study was performed to investigate the correlation of collagen mutation with the microdamage morphology and the associated brittleness of bone.
In this study, femurs from mild OI and wild type mice were fatigued under four-point bending to create microdamage in the specimens.
Then, the microdamage morphology of these specimens was examined using the bulk-staining technique with basic fuchsin.
Similar with the results of previous studies, it was observed that linear microcracks were formed more easily in compression, whereas diffuse damage was induced more readily in tension for both wild-type and mild-type mice.
However, less diffuse damage was found in the tensile side of mild OI mouse femurs (collagen mutation) compared with those of wild type mice, showing that the microdamage morphology is correlated to the brittleness of bone.
The results of this study provide direct evidence that supports the prediction made by the previous numerical simulation studies, suggesting that microdamage morphology in bone is significantly correlated with the integrity of the collagen phase.
To determine the effect of BaSO4 on the fatigue crack growth rate, da/dN = C(delta K)n, of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) bone cement, radiopaque bone cement, radiolucent bone cement, and commercial PMMA (Plexiglas) were tested using a methodology based on ASTM E647.
The crack growth rate of radiopaque bone cement was one order of magnitude less than that of radiolucent.
Fractographic analysis showed that the regions of rapid catastrophic fracture were smooth for all materials tested.
The radiopaque fatigue surface was rough and characterized by ragged-edged stacked plateaus, a morphology consistent with the model of crack propagation through the interbead matrix.
Voids were visible in the interbead matrix on the order of the size of BaSO4 particles.
The fatigue surface of radiolucent bone cement was relatively smooth, a morphology consistent with crack propagation through both the PMMA beads and interbead matrix.
Fatigue striations were visible, and their spacing correlated well with crack propagation rates.
The striations indicated an increased crack growth rate through the PMMA beads.
Cyclic tests of the multicycle fatigue of commercially pure titanium were performed under normal conditions (without a magnetic field) and after exposure to a constant magnetic field of varying density (B = 0.3, 0.4, 0.5 T).
It was shown that the application of the constant magnetic field of varying density led to a fold increase in the average number of cycles to destruction of the VT1-0 titanium samples by 64, 123, and 163%, respectively.
Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the magnetic field led to a 1.45-fold increase in the critical length of the fracture (the width of the fatigue crack growth zone) and a 1.6-fold decrease in the distance between the fatigue striations in the accelerated crack growth zone of the destroyed titanium samples.
It was established that a subgrain (fragmented) structure formed in the area of the fatigue growth of the fracture of the titanium samples.
The size of the subgrains corresponded to the spaces between the fatigue striations, which had an inhibitory influence on the microcrack propagation.
Collectively, the revealed facts are indicative of a higher material resistance to fatigue fracture propagation and increased operation resources under the fatigue tests in the magnetic field, which correlates with the data on the growth of the average number of cycles to fracture of the VT1-0 titanium samples.
Retrieval analysis of 2 Ti-6Al-4V alloy rods that fractured after spinal instrumentation surgery.
To determine the mechanism that underlies fractures of Ti-6Al-4V alloy rods after spinal instrumentation surgery from a materials science viewpoint.
Rod failures after spinal instrumentation surgery are often reported and many case-based studies have been published.
However, the details of the mechanism that underlies the fractures have not yet been fully elucidated.
Two patients, a 71-year-old female and an 11-year-old male, underwent radiography and removal of their fractured rods.
The latter patient had been treated using the growing-rod method.
Metallurgical failure analysis of the retrieved rods was conducted, and material properties were compared between the unused and fractured rods.
The microstructures and mechanical properties of the Ti-6Al-4V alloy rods that failed after spinal instrumentation surgery were similar to those of unused rods.
Analysis of the fracture surfaces clearly identified fatigue cracking in both cases that would have lowered the resistance of the rods to failures caused by external stresses.
Shot blasting the surfaces of Ti-6Al-4V alloy rods and bending the rods to fit particular contours, which is always conducted during spinal instrumentation surgery, probably introduced fatigue cracking because the alloy is highly notch sensitive.
Improvements should be made to rod design and/or rod material, because the fatigue resistance of titanium alloys is intrinsically lower than that of other commercially available rod materials, including cobalt-chromium alloys.
These imperfections may have greater consequences for the growing-rod method and pseudarthrosis, where the rods are not completely fixed, and they subsequently suffer from severe long-arm moments.
Hydrogen-assisted (HA) fatigue crack growth (FCG) occurs in ferritic steels, wherein H-dislocation interaction plays a vital role.
We aim to model the HAFCG mechanism based on the  Hydrogen-assisted fatigue crack growth was comprehensively interpreted by focusing on thermally activated interaction between hydrogen and dislocation under various temperatures and loading rates.
Traditionally, titanium alloys with satisfactory mechanical properties can only be produced via energy-intensive and costly wrought processes, while titanium alloys produced using low-cost powder metallurgy methods consistently result in inferior mechanical properties, especially low fatigue strength.
Herein, we demonstrate a new microstructural engineering approach for producing low-cost titanium alloys with exceptional fatigue strength via the hydrogen sintering and phase transformation (HSPT) process.
The high fatigue strength presented in this work is achieved by creating wrought-like microstructures without resorting to wrought processing.
This is accomplished by generating an ultrafine-grained as-sintered microstructure through hydrogen-enabled phase transformations, facilitating the subsequent creation of fatigue-resistant microstructures via simple heat treatments.
The exceptional strength, ductility, and fatigue performance reported in this paper are a breakthrough in the field of low-cost titanium processing.
Bolted connections are crucial in joining mechanical assemblies and ensuring the integrity and reliability of structural components.
This study proposes a method for estimating bolt loosening life by practically applying material fatigue life prediction methods.
First, the study employed the linear cumulative damage rule to predict the loosening life of single bolts under two-block loading conditions.
Second, a test device with two bolt attachment points on a single structure was fabricated to model the multi-bolted structure, and tests were conducted.
Finite element analysis (FEA) analysis was employed to identify vulnerable points.
The loosening life of single bolts predicted using the linear cumulative damage rule exhibited enhanced accuracy within a ±1.2× error band compared with the experimental data despite variations in bolt types and test conditions.
The FEA results for the multi-bolt structure demonstrated that the loosening life could be predicted by identifying vulnerable points and estimating the displacements.
This study effectively predicts the bolt loosening life, offering valuable data for the reliability assessment of bolted structures.
Biomedical Co-29Cr-6Mo alloy is one of the alloys that are suitable for laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) additive manufacturing and as an implant material is often used in situations of critical and cyclic loading.
Thus, fatigue crack growth (FCG) behaviour and resistance of the alloy processed by LPBF are an important consideration for dental and orthopaedic applications.
In this study, FCG testing has been conducted to evaluate how build direction (BD) dependent grain/cell structure in relation to crack growth direction (CD), either CD⊥BD or CD//BD, affects FCG behaviour.
It has been found that the threshold stress intensity factor (ΔK
The weight that soldiers are required to carry in training and in combat has continually increased over the years.
Changes in load carried or pace of activity will alter the physiological and biomechanical stress associated with the activity.
Whether it is part of the soldier's training or an actual operation, managing the proper load and speed to minimize fatigue can be integral to the soldier's success.
Without a proper understanding of the multitude of factors that may affect load carriage performance, mission success may be jeopardized.
The purpose of this review is to summarize and clarify the findings of load carriage research and to propose a new method for analyzing the intensity of load carriage tasks, the Load-Speed Index.
We reviewed studies that examined military load carriage at walking speeds and included articles that featured non-military participants as deemed necessary.
Major factors that can affect load carriage performance, such as speed of movement, load carried, load placement, body armor, and environmental extremes all influence the soldier's energy expenditure.
A critical aspect of load carriage performance is determining the appropriate combination of speed and load that will maximize efficiency of the activity.
At the higher end of walking speeds, the walk-to-run transition represents a potential problem of efficiency, as it may vary on an individual or population basis.
This review provides a comprehensive overview of these factors and suggests a new Load-Speed Index, which can be utilized to define thresholds for load and speed combinations and contribute to the understanding of the physiological and biomechanical demands of load carriage marches.
The literature recommends that load and speed should be managed in order to maintain an exercise intensity ~45% VO2 max to delay time to fatigue during prolonged marches, and the Load-Speed Index corroborated this finding, identifying 47% VO2 max as a threshold above which intensity increases at a greater rate with increases in load and speed.
The Load-Speed Index requires validation as a predictive tool.
There are no definitive findings as to how load affects the speed at which the walk-to-run transition occurs, as no investigations have specifically examined this interaction.
Additional research is clearly needed by examining a wide range of loads that will facilitate a clearer understanding of speed and load combinations that optimize marching pace and reduce energy expenditure.
During the second stage of labor, the maternal pelvic floor muscles undergo repetitive stretch loading as uterine contractions and strenuous maternal pushes combined to expel the fetus, and it is not uncommon that these muscles sustain a partial or complete rupture.
It has recently been demonstrated that soft tissues, including the anterior cruciate ligament and connective tissue in sheep pelvic floor muscle, can accumulate damage under repetitive physiological (submaximal) loads.
It is well known to material scientists that this damage accumulation can not only decrease tissue resistance to stretch but also result in a partial or complete structural failure.
Thus, we wondered whether certain maternal pushing patterns (in terms of frequency and duration of each push) could increase the risk of excessive damage accumulation in the pelvic floor tissue, thereby inadvertently contributing to the development of pelvic floor muscle injury.
This study aimed to determine which labor management practices (spontaneous vs directed pushing) are less prone to accumulate damage in the pelvic floor muscles during the second stage of labor and find the optimum approach in terms of minimizing the risk of pelvic floor muscle injury.
We developed a biomechanical model for the expulsive phase of the second stage of labor that includes the ability to measure the damage accumulation because of repetitive physiological submaximal loads.
We performed 4 simulations of the second stage of labor, reflecting a directed pushing technique and 3 alternatives for spontaneous pushing.
The finite element model predicted that the origin of the pubovisceral muscle accumulates the most damage and so it is the most likely place for a tear to develop.
This result was independent of the pushing pattern.
Performing 3 maternal pushes per contraction, with each push lasting 5 seconds, caused less damage and seemed the best approach.
The directed pushing technique (3 pushes per contraction, with each push lasting 10 seconds) did not reduce the duration of the second stage of labor and caused higher damage accumulation.
The frequency and duration of the maternal pushes influenced the damage accumulation in the passive tissues of the pelvic floor muscles, indicating that it can influence the prevalence of pelvic floor muscle injuries.
Our results suggested that the maternal pushes should not last longer than 5 seconds and that the duration of active pushing is a better measurement than the total duration of the second stage of labor.
Hopefully, this research will help to shed new light on the best practices needed to improve the experience of labor for women.
The accumulation of fatigue damage is primarily caused by cyclic plastic deformation.
In low-cycle fatigue, cyclic plastic deformation is the dominant deformation mode.
In high-cycle fatigue, although most deformation is elastic, plastic deformation may still occur in localized regions of stress concentration and plays a critical role in the initiation of fatigue cracks.
Considering that cyclic plastic deformation can be characterized by hysteresis loops, this study modifies the flow stress equation and the cyclic plastic deformation relationship based on stress-strain hysteresis loops at half-life cycles under different strain amplitudes.
An improved model for life prediction that incorporates the effects of strain amplitude is proposed.
The results of experiments on 310S stainless steel and 1045 carbon steel demonstrate that the model achieved prediction errors within a factor of two and provided reliable predictions for both high-cycle and low-cycle fatigue life across the entire ε-N curve.
Many structures are subjected to variable amplitude loading in engineering practice.
The foundation of fatigue life prediction under variable amplitude loading is how to deal with the fatigue damage accumulation.
A nonlinear fatigue damage accumulation model to consider the effects of load sequences was proposed in earlier literature, but the model cannot consider the load interaction effects, and sometimes it makes a major error.
A modified nonlinear damage accumulation model is proposed in this paper to account for the load interaction effects.
Experimental data of two metallic materials are used to validate the proposed model.
The agreement between the model prediction and experimental data is observed, and the predictions by proposed model are more possibly in accordance with experimental data than that by primary model and Miner's rule.
Comparison between the predicted cumulative damage by the proposed model and an existing model shows that the proposed model predictions can meet the accuracy requirement of the engineering project and it can be used to predict the fatigue life of welded aluminum alloy joint of Electric Multiple Units (EMU); meanwhile, the accuracy of approximation can be obtained from the proposed model though more simple computing process and less material parameters calling for extensive testing than the existing model.
Analytical models that predict modulus degradation in cortical bone subjected to uniaxial fatigue loading in tension and compression are presented.
On the basis of experimental observations, damage was modeled as self-limiting for tension but not for compression.
These mechanistic uniaxial damage models were then developed into a model for flexural fatigue of cortical bone based on laminated beam theory.
The unknown coefficients in the uniaxial damage models were obtained by successfully fitting the resulting equations to uniaxial fatigue data from the literature on human cortical bone in tension and compression.
Then, the predictions of the flexural model for the behavior of human cortical bone were compared with experimental results from a small but independent set of specimens tested at three different ranges of load in our laboratory.
The behavior of the modulus degradation curves and the flexural fatigue lives of the specimens were in excellent agreement with the predictions of the model.
Metallic cellular solids, made of biocompatible alloys like titanium, stainless steel, or cobalt-chromium, have gained attention for their mechanical strength, reliability, and biocompatibility.
These three-dimensional structures provide support and aid tissue regeneration in orthopedic implants, cardiovascular stents, and other tissue engineering cellular solids.
The design and material chemistry of metallic cellular solids play crucial roles in their performance: factors such as porosity, pore size, and surface roughness influence nutrient transport, cell attachment, and mechanical stability, while their microstructure imparts strength, durability and flexibility.
Various techniques, including additive manufacturing and conventional fabrication methods, are utilized for producing metallic biomedical cellular solids, each offering distinct advantages and drawbacks that must be considered for optimal design and manufacturing.
The combination of mechanical properties and biocompatibility makes metallic cellular solids superior to their ceramic and polymeric counterparts in most load bearing applications, in particular under cyclic fatigue conditions, and more in general in application that require long term reliability.
Although challenges remain, such as reducing the production times and the associated costs or increasing the array of available materials, metallic cellular solids showed excellent long-term reliability, with high survival rates even in long term follow-ups.
TC4 alloy coatings were fabricated on a titanium alloy substrate using laser cladding.
The influence of laser power ranging from 1000 W to 2200 W on the microhardness, wear resistance, and electrochemical corrosion behavior in 3.5% NaCl solution was systematically investigated.
Results demonstrate that the TC4 coating exhibited a 35.17% enhancement in microhardness compared to the substrate, with an average value reaching 500 HV.
As the laser power increased from 1000 W to 2200 W, the maximum wear depth progressively decreased, indicating significantly improved wear resistance, with fatigue wear being identified as the dominant mechanism.
The coating prepared at 1400 W showed the best corrosion performance, displaying the highest self-corrosion potential of -0.110 V, the lowest corrosion current density of 0.125 μA·cm
This study aimed to experimentally investigate the tensile, impact, and fatigue strength of 3D-printed polymers.
Tensile and Izod impact tests were conducted on 3D-printed specimens of polylactic acid (PLA), acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), and epoxy.
In the tensile test, PLA, ABS, and epoxy exhibited brittle, tough, and ductile behaviors, respectively.
ABS demonstrated the highest impact strength by a significant margin, followed by PLA and epoxy.
Subsequently, rotary bending fatigue tests were performed on simple specimens of these polymers under a stress amplitude of 28 MPa. The results indicated that PLA exhibited the highest fatigue life, whereas epoxy demonstrated the lowest.
To examine the effect of notches and their geometry on fatigue life, rotary bending fatigue tests were also conducted on notched epoxy specimens featuring circumferential notches and root radii of 1.0, 0.6, and 0.3 mm. Notched epoxy specimens with notch root radii of 1.0 and 0.6 mm exhibited similar fatigue lives, whereas those with a 0.3 mm root radius experienced a fatigue life reduction of approximately one-third.
Finite element analysis (FEA) was employed to calculate the maximum von Mises stress at the notch root, demonstrating that the 0.3 mm notch root radius approached a sharp notch and resulted in a substantial effect on stress concentration.
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was utilized to elucidate the failure mechanisms of the polymers during the impact and fatigue tests.
Multiaxial fatigue of the components is a very complex behavior.
This analyzes the multiaxial fatigue failure mechanism, reviews and compares the advantages and disadvantages of the classic model.
The fatigue failure mechanism and fatigue life under multiaxial loading are derived through theoretical analysis and formulas, and finally verified with the results of multiaxial fatigue tests.
The model of multiaxial fatigue life for low-cycle fatigue life prediction model not only improves the prediction accuracy of the classic model, but also considers the effects of non-proportional additional hardening phenomena and fatigue failure modes.
The model is proved to be effective in low-cycle fatigue life prediction under different loading paths and types for different materials.
Compared with the other three classical models, the proposed model has higher life prediction accuracy and good engineering applicability.
This study investigated the fatigue crack propagation behavior of ultra-high-performance concrete (UHPC) incorporated with different steel fiber lengths of 6, 13, and 20 mm under flexural cyclic loading, based on the Paris law and nonlinear fracture mechanics.
In addition, multiple crack covering areas and fatigue J-integral amplitudes were employed to quantitatively evaluate the fatigue crack propagation rate and predicate the fatigue life of the UHPC during the steady development stage.
The results indicated that the maximum crack opening displacement (COD) values were 0.312, 0.673, and 1.265 mm and the minimum crack growth rates were -3.05, -4.48 and -4.62 for SF6, SF13, and SF20, respectively.
The critical crack length was approximately 65 mm for UHPC specimens containing different fiber length at a given fiber volume fraction (2.0%), indicating that the critical crack length was simply related to the fiber length.
Interestingly, when the fatigue crack area of all the tested series reached approximately 35 mm2, fracture failure occurred.
There were very small predictions between the actual tested and predicated fatigue lives, all less than 7.21%.
Hence, it was reasonable to predict the fatigue life of the UHPC based on the J-integral according to the DIC technique.
When microscopic and macroscopic specimens of metals are subjected to cyclic loading, the creation, interaction, and accumulation of defects lead to damage, cracking, and failure.
Here we demonstrate that when aluminum single crystals of submicrometer dimensions are subjected to low-amplitude cyclic deformation at room temperature, the density of preexisting dislocation lines and loops can be dramatically reduced with virtually no change of the overall sample geometry and essentially no permanent plastic strain.
This "cyclic healing" of the metal crystal leads to significant strengthening through dramatic reductions in dislocation density, in distinct contrast to conventional cyclic strain hardening mechanisms arising from increases in dislocation density and interactions among defects in microcrystalline and macrocrystalline metals and alloys.
Our real-time, in situ transmission electron microscopy observations of tensile tests reveal that pinned dislocation lines undergo shakedown during cyclic straining, with the extent of dislocation unpinning dependent on the amplitude, sequence, and number of strain cycles.
Those unpinned mobile dislocations moving close enough to the free surface of the thin specimens as a result of such repeated straining are then further attracted to the surface by image forces that facilitate their egress from the crystal. These results point to a versatile pathway for controlled mechanical annealing and defect engineering in submicrometer-sized metal crystals, thereby obviating the need for thermal annealing or significant plastic deformation that could cause change in shape and/or dimensions of the specimen.
Ti-Zr alloys have recently started to receive a considerable amount of attention as promising materials for dental applications.
This work compares mechanical properties of a new Ti-15Zr alloy to those of commercially pure titanium Grade4 in two surface conditions - machined and modified by sand-blasting and etching (SLA).
As a result of significantly smaller grain size in the initial condition (1-2µm), the strength of Ti-15Zr alloy was found to be 10-15% higher than that of Grade4 titanium without reduction in the tensile elongation or compromising the fracture toughness.
The fatigue endurance limit of the alloy was increased by around 30% (560MPa vs. 435MPa and 500MPa vs. 380MPa for machined and SLA-treated surfaces, respectively).
Additional implant fatigue tests showed enhanced fatigue performance of Ti-15Zr over Ti-Grade4.
We present 14 cases of fracture of modern, high-nitrogen, stainless steel stems.
Our clinical and radiological data suggest that heavy patients with small stems and poor proximal support are at risk for fracturing their implants. "Champagne-glass" canals can lead to the use of smaller stems often placed in varus, which can lead to cantilever bending and fatigue failure in the distal half of the stem.
Metallurgical assessment of the retrieved high-nitrogen, stainless steel stems reveals microstructural inconsistencies that may contribute to their failure.
Based on our findings, careful consideration and attention to technique is required when using stainless steel stems in patients with high body mass index or high weight.
Technique is particularly important in femurs with champagne-glass canals.
Corrugated steel web with inherent high out-of-plane stiffness has a promising application in configuring large span highway bridge girders.
Due to the irregularity of the configuration details, the local stress concentration poses a major fatigue problem for the welded flange plates of high strength low alloy structural steels.
In this work, the methods of applying CFRP laminate and shot peening onto the surfaces of the tension flanges were employed with the purpose of improving the fatigue strength of such configuration details.
The effectiveness of this method in the improvement of fatigue strength has been examined experimentally.
Test results show that the shot peening significantly increases hardness and roughness in contrast to these without treatment.
Also, it has beneficial effects on the fatigue strength enhancement when compared against the test data of the joints with CFRP strengthening.
The stiffness degradation during the loading progress is compared with each treatment.
Incorporating the stress acting on the constituent parts of the CFRP laminates, a discussion is made regarding the mechanism of the retrofit and related influencing factors such as corrosion and economic cost.
This work could enhance the understanding of the CFRP and shot peening in repairing such welded details and shed light on the reinforcement design of welded joints between corrugated steel webs and flange plates.
Biomedical implants like the hip joint with cup work under continuous friction and wear phenomena where soft materials are suitable for the low coefficient of friction.
As continuous, joints go under dynamic fatigue that should be accelerated by the fretting action generated from contact pairs and the inclination angle of the femur.
In this research, the fatigue behavior of PTFE has been studied and compared under friction along with fretting action.
A FE based Numerical model justified the experimental results.
It showed that fretting and friction influence the fatigue life of PTFE by various angles.
Fretting pressure optimization was identified as the determinant factor, while the loading point ratio was remarked as an effective parameter for both fretting and friction fatigue.
Penetration depths proportionality to corresponding stress observed the effect of fretting fatigue where friction acts in different degrees depending on the geometry (collar/notch)-loading (friction) position.
The fractographical demonstration revealed a relation between crack orientation and fretting action.
Predefined loading action on test samples justified the singularity of fretting-friction fatigue characteristics on the damage mechanism of PTFE.
This paper presents a corrosion fatigue cyclic failure test for X80 steel, which has arc sprayed with an Al-Zn coating in natural seawater under different stress levels.
We found that the Al-Zn coating can significantly improve the corrosion fatigue resistance and slow the crack initiation of X80 steel.
The effect of the Al-Zn coating on the corrosion fatigue crack initiation is mainly attributed to its physical isolation, cathodic protection and residual prestress while the effect on crack propagation is due to its inhibition of the formation and evolution of secondary cracks.
Moreover, according to the test results, a new life prediction model for corrosion fatigue based on the damage evolution law is proposed and the effect of corrosion-fatigue coupling damage in the proposed model is also considered.
Fatigue properties remain a key challenge for aluminum-steel self-piercing riveted (SPR) joints in lightweight structures.
This study evaluates shot peening as a pretreatment for the AA5052 sheet to improve the fatigue behavior of AA5052/SPFC440 dissimilar joints and to clarify the underlying mechanisms.
Shot-peened and conventional SPR joints were prepared for comparison.
Quasi-static tensile tests were conducted, and tension-tension fatigue tests were performed at high and low load levels.
After shot peening, multiple factors with residual compressive stress, subsurface hardening, and surface roughness influenced the fatigue performance of the SPR joints.
This led to a load-level-dependent fatigue behavior, with improved fatigue performance at low load levels and reduced performance at high load levels.
At high load conditions, the increased surface roughness played a more significant role, with more crack initiation sites observed, resulting in fatigue lives comparable to or slightly lower than those of conventional joints.
In contrast, at low load levels in the long-life regime, surface tensile stress was effectively reduced, crack initiation at surface defects was suppressed, and crack initiation shifted from the surface to subsurface regions, resulting in an 11.3% improvement in fatigue strength.
These findings provide practical guidance for improving the fatigue performance of dissimilar-material SPR joints through material surface pretreatment.
Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that inhibits receptor activator of nuclearfactor-kappa B ligand (RANKL).
This key mediator of osteoclast activities has been shown to inhibit osteoclast differentiation and hence, to increase bone mineral density (BMD) in treated patients.
In the current study, we develop a computer model to simulate the effects of denosumab treatments (dose and duration) on the proximal femur bone remodeling process quantified by the variation in proximal femur BMD.
The simulation model is based on a coupled pharmacokinetics model of denosumab with a pharmacodynamics model consisting of a mechanobiological finite element remodeling model which describes the activities of osteoclasts and osteoblasts.
A coupled strain-damage stimulus function is proposed which controls the level of bone cell autocrine and paracrine factors.
The cellular behavior is based on Komarova et al.׳s (2003) dynamic law which describes the autocrine and paracrine interactions between osteoblasts and osteoclasts and computes cell population dynamics and changes in bone mass at a discrete site of bone remodeling.
Therefore, when an external mechanical stress is applied, bone formation and resorption is governed by cell dynamics rather than by adaptive elasticity approaches.
The proposed finite element model was implemented in the finite element code Abaqus (UMAT routine).
In order to perform a preliminary validation, in vivo human proximal femurs were selected and scanned at two different time intervals (at baseline and at a 36-month interval).
Then, a 3D FE model was generated and the denosumab-remodeling algorithm was applied to the scans at t0 simulating daily walking activities for a duration of 36 months.
The predicted results (density variation) were compared to existing published ones performed on a human cohort (FREEDOM).
Nickel-titanium (NiTi) shape memory alloys are widely used for medical components, as they can accommodate large strains in their superelastic state.
In order to further improve the mechanical properties of NiTi, grain refinement by severe plastic deformation is applied to generate an ultrafine-grained microstructure with increased strength.
In this work comprehensive fracture and fatigue crack growth experiments were performed on ultrafine-grained NiTi to assess its damage tolerance, which is essential for the safe use of this material in medical applications.
It was found, that equal channel angular pressing of NiTi for 8 passes route B
Lightweight materials that are both highly compressible and resilient under large cyclic strains can be used in a variety of applications.
Carbon nanotubes offer a combination of elasticity, mechanical resilience and low density, and these properties have been exploited in nanotube-based foams and aerogels.
However, all nanotube-based foams and aerogels developed so far undergo structural collapse or significant plastic deformation with a reduction in compressive strength when they are subjected to cyclic strain.
Here, we show that an inelastic aerogel made of single-walled carbon nanotubes can be transformed into a superelastic material by coating it with between one and five layers of graphene nanoplates.
The graphene-coated aerogel exhibits no change in mechanical properties after more than 1 × 10(6) compressive cycles, and its original shape can be recovered quickly after compression release.
Moreover, the coating does not affect the structural integrity of the nanotubes or the compressibility and porosity of the nanotube network.
The coating also increases Young's modulus and energy storage modulus by a factor of ∼6, and the loss modulus by a factor of ∼3.
We attribute the superelasticity and complete fatigue resistance to the graphene coating strengthening the existing crosslinking points or 'nodes' in the aerogel.
Neck pain is a major inhibitor affecting the performance of U.S. military personnel.
Repetitive exposure to cyclic loading due to military activities over several years can lead to accumulation of fatigue damage in the cervical intervertebral disc annuli, leading to neck pain.
We have developed a computational damage model based on continuum damage mechanics, to predict fatigue damage to cervical disc annuli over several years of exposure to military loading scenarios.
By integrating this fatigue damage model with a finite element model of the cervical spine, we have overcome the underlying assumption of a uniform stress distribution in the annulus.
The resulting element-wise damage prediction gives us insight into the location of damage initiation and pattern of fatigue damage progression in the cervical disc annulus.
The rotating bending fatigue crack sources of SAE52100 high carbon bearing steel were studied in this paper.
On the fatigue fracture surfaces, inclusions for crack initiation are mainly Ca-Al-O and TiN inclusions, and the size of TiN inclusions is much smaller than that of Ca-Al-O inclusions.
The analysis of inclusions by Aspex shows that the number and size of Ca-Al-O inclusions in the matrix are much larger than those of TiN inclusions.
Combined with the calculation of stress intensity factor and the analysis of stress concentration factor, the sharp angle characteristic of TiN inclusions is the main reason for its stronger deterioration to fatigue properties, and the damaging effect of TiN inclusions with the same size to the matrix fatigue properties is about 1.33-1.67 times that of Ca-Al-O inclusions.
The tensile and impact deformation behavior of three different Mn content test steels, xMn-1.0C-0.25V-1.5Cr-0.3Mo (5, 8 and 13 wt%), were investigated using mechanical properties testing, SEM-EBSD and TEM.
The elongation and -20 °C impact energy of the three types of Mn content test steels increased as the Mn content increased.
The room temperature tensile elongation was 9%, 23% and 81%, and the -20 °C impact energy was 9 J, 99 J and 241 J, respectively.
The fracture morphologies of 5 Mn and 8 Mn were found to be cleavage fractures with secondary cracks and micro-voids.
The 13 Mn fracture morphology was a plastic fracture with many coarse dimples.
Transverse cracks perpendicular to the tensile direction occurred on the surface of the gauge area of 5 Mn and 8 Mn tensile specimens, reducing plasticity dramatically.
This was mainly related to the martensitic transformation produced by stress.
We characterized the martensite near the tensile fracture and speculated the main mode of crack propagation.
Furthermore, a little amount of sharp-shaped BCC phase was found in the 5 Mn, which was determined to be a hard phase relative to the austenite matrix by nanoindentation test.
These steels have stacking fault energies ranging from ~15 to ~29 mJ/m
Tendinopathies are common chronic injuries that occur when damage accumulation caused by sub-rupture fatigue loading outpaces repair.
Studies have linked fatigue loading with various mechanical, structural, and biological changes associated with pathology.
However, the multiscale progression of damage accumulation with respect to area, severity and the distinct contributions of strain level and number of cycles has not been fully elucidated.
The objective of this study was to investigate multiscale mechanisms underlying fatigue damage accumulation and their effect on the cellular environment.
Using an in situ model in rat tail tendon (RTT), fatigue loading was applied at various strains and cycle numbers to induce fatigue damage.
Pre- and post- fatigue diagnostic mechanical testing, second harmonic generation (SHG) imaging, and transmission electron microscope (TEM) imaging were used to investigate extracellular and cellular damage modes at multiple scales.
Fatigue loading at strains at or below 1.0% resulted in no significant changes in SHG damage area or severity and no changes in collagen fibril or cell morphology compared with controls.
Fatigue loading at strains above 1.5% resulted in greater mechanical changes correlated with increased damage area measured by SHG and collagenous damage observed by TEM.
Increased cycles at high strain further altered mechanical properties, increased structural damage severity (but not area), and altered TEM collagen rupture patterns.
Cell morphology was similarly progressively affected with increased strain and cycle number.
These damage mechanisms that may trigger degenerative changes characteristic of tendinopathy could be targeted as a part of prevention or therapy.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the torsional resistance, cyclic fatigue resistance, and bending stiffness of nickel-titanium (NiTi) file systems with different heat treatments and cross-sectional designs.
WaveOne Primary treated with memory-triple (MT) heat treatment (WOMT) was compared with WaveOne Primary (WO) and WaveOne Gold Primary (WOG).
Torsional resistance test was performed using a customized device, and the distortion angle, ultimate strength, and toughness were evaluated.
For cyclic fatigue resistance test, the instruments were reciprocated with continuous 4 mm up-and-down movement until fracture in a customized device, and the time to fracture was compared.
Fracture surfaces of each group were examined under the scanning electron microscope.
Bending stiffness was measured using a custom-made device.
The results were analyzed using one-way analysis of variance and the Tukey's post hoc comparison at a significance level of 95%.
WOMT showed higher ultimate strength and toughness than the other systems (P < .05).
WOMT also showed highest cyclic fatigue resistance among the tested groups (P < .05).
WO had the highest bending stiffness than others, whereas WOMT had a larger residual angle than others (P < .05).
This new MT heat treatment technique makes NiTi file more flexible and improves its mechanical properties.
In addition, the effect of heat treatment on flexibility was found to be more significant than that of the cross-sectional area.
Ultrasonic nanocrystal surface modification (UNSM) technology is a novel surface modification technology that can improve the mechanical and tribological properties of interacting surfaces in relative motion.
UNSM treatment was utilized to improve the wear resistance fatigue strength of slim bearing rings made of SAE52100 bearing steel without damaging the raceway surfaces.
In this study, wear and fatigue results that were subjected to different impact loads of the UNSM treatment were investigated and compared with those of the untreated specimen.
The microhardness of the UNSM-treated specimens increased by about 20%, higher than that of the untreated specimens.
The X-ray diffraction analysis showed that a compressive residual stress of more than 1,000 MPa was induced after the UNSM treatment.
Also, electron backscatter diffraction analysis was used to study the surface structure and nanograin refinement.
The results showed that the rolling contact fatigue life and the rotary bending fatigue strength of the UNSM-treated specimens increased by about 80% and 31%, respectively, compared to those of the untreated specimen.
These results might be attributed to the increased microhardness, the induced compressive residual stress, and the nanocrystal structure modification after the UNSM treatment.
In addition, the fracture surface analysis showed that the fish eye crack initiation phenomenon was observed after the UNSM treatment.
Pathologic processes intrinsic and extrinsic to the tendons have been proposed as the underlying cause of rotator cuff disease, but the precise etiology is not known.
Tear formation is, in part, attributable to the accumulation of subrupture tendon fatigue damage.
We review the molecular, mechanical, and structural changes induced in tendons subjected to controlled amounts of fatigue loading in an animal model of early tendinopathy.
The distinct tendon responses to low and moderate levels of loading, as opposed to high levels, provide insight into the potential mechanisms for the therapeutic benefits of exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff tendinopathy.
The progression of damage accumulation leading to fiber rupture and eventual tendon tearing seen with higher loading illustrates the progression from tendinopathy to full-thickness tearing.
We hope that this more realistic animal model of tendon fatigue damage will allow better assessment of biologic, mechanical, tissue-engineering, and rehabilitation strategies to improve repair success.
The transmission characteristics of Lamb waves across a partially closed through-thickness crack in a plate are investigated numerically and experimentally.
In the numerical analysis, the spectral element method is used to simulate the transmission of the lowest-order symmetric (S0) and antisymmetric (A0) Lamb modes across a crack in a low-frequency range.
The analysis is carried out for an open crack with traction-free surfaces as well as for a partially closed crack modeled as a spring-type interface characterized by normal and tangential stiffnesses.
The transmission ratios of both modes are obtained from the spectral amplitude of the simulated transmission waveforms for different crack lengths and interfacial stiffnesses.
The numerical results show that the transmission ratio of the S0 mode increases monotonically with the interfacial stiffness, but that of the A0 mode depends on the interfacial stiffness in a non-monotonic manner depending on the frequency.
The Lamb wave transmission measurements are carried out for aluminum alloy plates with artificial slits or a fatigue crack.
The experimental results for the plates with slits show reasonable agreement with the numerical results for open cracks.
The measured transmission ratio of the S0 mode is shown to decrease with the tensile load applied to the plate, but that of the A0 mode shows different load dependence for different frequencies.
The qualitative features of the experimental results for the fatigue crack are discussed based on the numerical simulation for closed cracks.
To obtain fatigue crack propagation properties of ordinary concrete commonly employed in bridge construction, 48 replicate single-edge notched beam specimens were fabricated using C50 plain concrete.
Twelve of these were subjected to monotonic loading to determine their static capacity; the remaining 36 were fatigue-loaded with various combinations of maximum stress level and stress ratio under three-point bending.
Visual observation, strain gauges, and the compliance method were used to determine the evolution of crack length during fatigue loading.
The fatigue crack growth rates were then evaluated for each specimen using linear regression.
This study shows that the fracture surface under fatigue loading exhibits greater zigzagging than under monotonic loading, with multiple microcracks coalescing.
The elastic compliance method captures the three-stage development of fatigue crack well, and the derived equivalent crack size is consistently smaller than surface measurements.
Significant scatter exists in the test data; however, the crack growth rate and stress intensity factor range follow a straight line on logarithmic scales, indicating that the Paris Law applies to plain concrete.
The slope and intercept of C50 concrete, based on 27 fatigue-failed specimens, follow a Normal distribution, with means of 16.46 and -24.81 (in N-mm units), and coefficients of variation of 0.38 and -0.38, respectively.
The corresponding mean and coefficient of variation for slope and intercept by the Forman Equation are 14.80 and 0.42 and -21.18 and -0.44, respectively.
The fatigue crack in C50 concrete of this study shows a faster growth rate (46.7% larger slope) than that in lower-strength concrete in the literature.
With further research needs identified, this study contributes to a better understanding of the fatigue crack growth properties of ordinary structural concrete, providing valuable information for fatigue assessment and service-life extension of existing concrete bridges.
The low-cycle fatigue behavior of Al-9Si-4Cu-0.4Mg-0.3Sc alloy with different casting states was investigated by performing low-cycle fatigue tests and by means of observations and analysis with a scanning electron microscope (SEM) and a transmission electron microscope (TEM).
It was found that the metal-mold cast and die-cast Al-9Si-4Cu-0.4Mg-0.3Sc alloys exhibited the cyclic stress response of strain hardening under all imposed total strain amplitudes.
The cyclic deformation resistance and fatigue life of the metal-mold cast Al-9Si-4Cu-0.4Mg-0.3Sc alloy were lower than those of the die-cast Al-9Si-4Cu-0.4Mg-0.3Sc alloy.
The plastic strain and elastic strain amplitudes of the metal-mold cast and die-cast Al-9Si-4Cu-0.4Mg-0.3Sc alloys were linearly related to the number of reversals to failure, which obeyed the Coffin-Manson and Basquin formulas, respectively.
The results of TEM observation revealed that at all imposed total strain amplitudes, the cyclic deformation mechanisms of the metal-mold cast and die-cast Al-9Si-4Cu-0.4Mg-0.3Sc alloys were planar slip and wavy slip at the lower and higher strain amplitudes, respectively.
The main purpose of this research was to enhance the mechanical properties of friction stir welds (FSW) in the dissimilar aluminum alloys 6061-T6 and 7075-T651.
The welded workpiece has tensile residual stress due to the influence of the thermal conductivity of dissimilar materials, resulting in crack initiation and less fatigue strength.
The experiment started from the FSW process using the 2
Laser shock peening (LSP) is a powerful technique for improving the fatigue performance of metallic components by customizing compressive residual stresses in the desired near-surface regions.
In this study, the residual stress distribution characteristics of 6061-T6 aluminum alloy induced by LSP were identified by the X-ray diffraction method, and their dependent factors (i.e., LSP coverage, LSP energy, and scanning path) were evaluated quantitatively by numerical simulations, exploring the formation mechanism of LSP residual stresses and the key role factor of the distribution characteristics.
The results show that LSP is capable of creating anisotropic compressive residual stresses on the specimen surface without visible deformation.
Compressive residual stresses are positively correlated with LSP coverage.
The greater the coverage, the higher the residual stress, but the longer the scanning time required.
Raising LSP energy contributes to compressive residual stresses, but excessive energy may lead to a reduction in the surface compressive residual stress.
More importantly, the anisotropy of residual stresses was thoroughly explored, identifying the scanning path as the key to causing the anisotropy.
The present work provides scientific guidance for efficiently tailoring LSP-induced compressive residual stresses to improve component fatigue life.
Repetitive mechanical stresses on the knee joint during daily activities accumulate fatigue damage in the articular cartilage (AC), leading to wear and knee osteoarthritis (KOA).
Effective treatments remain limited, underscoring the need for predictive approaches to identify KOA early.
This study proposes a mathematical model to estimate AC degradation under cyclic loading from walking.
By integrating Miner's rule, Monte Carlo simulations, and Weibull distributions, the model predicts remaining cycles before AC loses 60% of its volume, a critical KOA threshold.
Verified against a well-established model, it offers potential for personalized strategies to prevent or delay KOA progression.
Fatigue fracture is one of the main causes of failure in structures.
However, the simulation of fatigue crack growth is computationally demanding due to the large number of load cycles involved.
Metals in the low cycle fatigue range often show significant plastic zones at the crack tip, calling for elastic-plastic material models, which increase the computation time even further.
In pursuit of a more efficient model, we propose a simplified phase-field model for ductile fatigue fracture, which indirectly accounts for plasticity within the fatigue damage accumulation.
Additionally, a cycle-skipping approach is inherent to the concept, reducing computation time by up to several orders of magnitude.
Essentially, the proposed model is a simplification of a phase-field model with elastic-plastic material behavior.
As a reference, we therefore implement a conventional elastic-plastic phase-field fatigue model with nonlinear hardening and a fatigue variable based on the strain energy density, and compare the simplified model to it.
Its approximation of the stress-strain behavior, the neglect of the plastic crack driving force and consequential range of applicability are discussed.
Since in fact the novel efficient model is similar in its structure to a phase-field fatigue model we published in the past, we include this older version in the comparison, too.
Compared to this model variant, the novel model improves the approximation of the plastic strains and corresponding stresses and refines the damage computation based on the Local Strain Approach.
For all model variants, experimentally determined values for elastic, plastic, fracture and fatigue properties of AA2024 T351 aluminum sheet material are employed.
Fatigue fracture in ductile materials, e. g. metals, is caused by cyclic plasticity.
Especially regarding the high numbers of load cycles, plastic material models resolving the full loading path are computationally very demanding.
Herein, a model with particularly small computational effort is presented.
It provides a macroscopic, phenomenological description of fatigue fracture by combining the phase-field method for brittle fracture with a classic durability concept.
A local lifetime variable is obtained, which degrades the fracture resistance progressively.
By deriving the stress-strain path from cyclic material characteristics, only one increment per load cycle is needed at maximum.
The model allows to describe fatigue crack initiation, propagation and residual fracture and can reproduce Paris behaviour.
Structural fatigue failures account for most of catastrophic metal component failures, annually causing thousands of accidents, tens of thousands of casualties, and $100 billion in global economic losses.
Current detection methods struggle to identify early-stage fatigue damage characterized by sub-nanometer atomic displacements and localized bond rupture.
Here we present a quantum-enhanced monitoring framework leveraging the fundamental symbiosis between metallic bonding forces and magnetic interactions.
Through magnetic excitation of quantum spin correlation in metallic structures, we establish a macroscopic quantum spin correlation amplification technology that visualizes fatigue-induced magnetic flux variations corresponding to bond strength degradation.
Our multi-scale analysis integrates fatigue life prediction with quantum mechanical parameters (bonding force constants, crystal orbital overlap population) and ferromagnetic element dynamics, achieving unprecedented prediction accuracy (R^2>0.9, p<0.0001).
In comprehensive fatigue trials encompassing 193 ferromagnetic metal specimens across 3,700 testing hours, this quantum magnetic signature consistently provided macroscopic fracture warnings prior to failure - a critical advance enabling 100% early detection success.
This transformative framework establishes the first operational platform for preemptive fatigue mitigation in critical infrastructure, offering a paradigm shift from post-failure analysis to quantum-enabled predictive maintenance.
An in situ study of deformation, fracture, and fatigue behavior of silicon as a lithium-ion battery electrode material is presented.
Thin films (100-200 nm) of silicon are cycled in a half-cell configuration with lithium metal foil as counter/reference electrode, with 1M lithium hexafluorophosphate in ethylene carbonate, diethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate solution (1:1:1, wt.%) as electrolyte.
Stress evolution in the Si thin-film electrodes during electrochemical lithiation and delithiation is measured by monitoring the substrate curvature using the multi-beam optical sensing method.
The stress measurements have been corrected for contributions from residual stress arising from sputter-deposition.
An indirect method for estimating the potential errors due to formation of the solid-electrolyte-interphase layer and surface charge on the stress measurements was presented.
The films undergo extensive inelastic deformation during lithiation and delithiation.
The peak compressive stress during lithiation was 1.48 GPa.
The stress data along with the electron microscopy observations are used to estimate an upper bound fracture resistance of lithiated Si, which is approximately 9-11 J/m^2.
Fracture initiation and crack density evolution as a function of cycle number is also reported.
The fatigue fracture surfaces of a metallic alloy, and the stress corrosion fracture surfaces of glass are investigated as a function of crack velocity.
It is shown that in both cases, there are two fracture regimes, which have a well defined self-affine signature.
At high enough length scales, the universal roughness index 0.78 is recovered.
At smaller length scales, the roughness exponent is close to 0.50.
The crossover length $ξ_c$ separating these two regimes strongly depends on the material, and exhibits a power-law decrease with the measured crack velocity $ξ_c \propto v^{-φ}$, with $φ\simeq 1$.
The exponents $ν$ and $β$ characterising the dependence of $ξ_c$ and $v$ upon the pulling force are shown to be close to $ν\simeq 2$ and $β\simeq 2$.
Additive Manufacturing (AM) is transforming the manufacturing sector by enabling efficient production of intricately designed products and small-batch components.
However, metal parts produced via AM can include flaws that cause inferior mechanical properties, including reduced fatigue response, yield strength, and fracture toughness.
To address this issue, we leverage convolutional neural networks (CNN) to analyze thermal images of printed layers, automatically identifying anomalies that impact these properties.
We also investigate various synthetic data generation techniques to address limited and imbalanced AM training data.
Our models' defect detection capabilities were assessed using images of Nickel alloy 718 layers produced on a laser powder bed fusion AM machine and synthetic datasets with and without added noise.
Our results show significant accuracy improvements with synthetic data, emphasizing the importance of expanding training sets for reliable defect detection.
Specifically, Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN)-generated datasets streamlined data preparation by eliminating human intervention while maintaining high performance, thereby enhancing defect detection capabilities.
Additionally, our denoising approach effectively improves image quality, ensuring reliable defect detection.
Finally, our work integrates these models in the CLoud ADditive MAnufacturing (CLADMA) module, a user-friendly interface, to enhance their accessibility and practicality for AM applications.
This integration supports broader adoption and practical implementation of advanced defect detection in AM processes.
We report on the characterization of high carbon bearing steel 100Cr6 using electron microscopy and atom probe tomography in combination with multi-component diffusion simulations (DICTRA).
Scanning electron micrographs show that around 14 vol.% spheroidized carbides are formed during soft annealing and only 3 vol.% remain after dissolution into the austenitic matrix by austenitization at 1123 K (850 °C) for 300 s.
The spheroidized particles are identified as (Fe, Cr)3C by transmission electron microscopy.
Atom probe analyses reveal the redistribution and partitioning behaviors of elements, i.e. C, Si, Mn, Cr, Fe in both, the spheroidized carbides and the bainitic matrix in the sample isothermally heat-treated at 773 K (500 °C) after austenitization.
A homogeneous distribution of C and gradual gradient of Cr was detected within the spheroidized carbides.
Due to its limited diffusivity in (Fe, Cr)3C, Cr exhibits a maximum concentration at the surface of spheroidized carbides (16 at.%) and decreases gradually from surface towards the core down to a level of about 2 at.%.
The atom probe results also indicate that the partially dissolved spheroidized carbides during austenitization may serve as nucleation sites for intermediate temperature cementite within bainite, which results in a relatively softer surface and harder core in spheroidized particles.
This microstructure may contribute to the good wear resistance and fatigue properties
Accurate predictions of the failure progression of structural materials is critical for preventing failure-induced accidents.
Despite considerable mechanics modeling-based efforts, accurate prediction remains a challenging task in real-world environments due to unexpected damage factors and defect evolutions.
Here, we report a novel method for predicting material failure characteristics that uniquely combines nondestructive X-ray computed tomography (X-CT), persistent homology (PH), and deep multimodal learning (DML).
The combined method exploits the microstructural defect state at the time of material examination as an input, and outputs the failure-related properties.
Our method is demonstrated to be effective using two types of fracture datasets (tensile and fatigue datasets) with ferritic low alloy steel as a representative structural material. The method achieves a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.09 in predicting the local strain with the tensile dataset and an MAE of 0.14 in predicting the fracture progress with the fatigue dataset.
These high accuracies are mainly due to PH processing of the X-CT images, which transforms complex and noisy three-dimensional X-CT images into compact two-dimensional persistence diagrams that preserve key topological features such as the internal void size, density, and distribution.
The combined PH and DML processing of 3D X-CT data is our unique approach enabling reliable failure predictions at the time of material examination based on void topology progressions, and the method can be extended to various nondestructive failure tests for practical use.
This paper presents a modeling framework to describe the driving mechanisms of cyclic failure in brittle and ductile materials, including cyclic plasticity and fatigue crack growth.
A variational model is devised using the energetic formulation for rate-independent systems, coupling a phase-field description of fatigue fracture to a cyclic plasticity model that includes multi-surface kinematic hardening, gradient-enhanced isotropic hardening/softening and ratcheting.
The coupled model embeds two distinctive fatigue effects.
The first captures the characteristic features of low-cycle fatigue, driven by the accumulation of plastic strains, while the second accounts for high-cycle fatigue, driven by free energy accumulation.
The interplay between these mechanisms allows to describe a wide range of cyclic responses under both force loading and displacement loading, as shown in several numerical simulations.
Moreover, the phase-field approach to fracture accounts for the initiation and propagation of fatigue-induced cracks.
Repeated loading of a solid leads to microstructural damage that ultimately results in catastrophic material failure.
While posing a major threat to the stability of virtually all materials, the microscopic origins of fatigue, especially for soft solids, remain elusive.
Here we explore fatigue in colloidal gels as prototypical inhomogeneous soft solids by combining experiments and computer simulations.
Our results reveal how mechanical loading leads to irreversible strand stretching, which builds slack into the network that softens the solid at small strains and causes strain hardening at larger deformations.
We thus find that microscopic plasticity governs fatigue at much larger scales.
This gives rise to a new picture of fatigue in soft thermal solids and calls for new theoretical descriptions of soft gel mechanics in which local plasticity is taken into account.
A micromechanical model at the microscale within a crystal plasticity self-consistent model, is used to analyse loading histories in Type 316H stainless steel, common to structural components in high-temperature power plants.
The study compares the SCM predictions on changes in mechanical behaviour and creep properties to analyses via the UK R5 structural assessment code.
Plant-relevant cyclic-creep histories in Type 316H stainless steel at 550C are examined with focus on the estimation of accumulated creep strain.
This aims to quantify how better understanding of creep deformation under cyclic loading can inform R5 code life assessment methods, which are strain based.
The effect of cyclic plasticity on primary and secondary creep is quantified.
The levels of creep strain accumulated during different dwells, following loading from different macroscopic stress states, is also evaluated and link is made to experimental observations in explaining the response.
The impact of displacement- and load-controlled dwells on the evolution of the cyclic hysteresis loop is examined which revealed how different assumptions for creep strain accumulation could employ information from SCM results to reduce uncertainty.
It also provides guidance in the development of interpolation frameworks for structural parameters, based on the SCM results which could be used directly in structural assessment and design approaches to estimate the accumulation of inelastic strain with a lower degree of conservatism.
Solids subjected to repeated cycles of stress or deformation can fail after several cycles, a phenomenon termed fatigue failure.
Although intensely investigated for a wide range of materials owing to its obvious practical importance, a microscopic understanding of the initiation of fatigue failure continues to be actively pursued, in particular for soft and amorphous materials.
We investigate fatigue failure for glasses subjected to cyclic shear deformation through computer simulations.
We show that, approaching the so-called fatigue limit, failure times display a power law divergence, at variance with commonly used functional forms, and exhibit strong dependence on the degree of annealing of the glasses.
We explore several measures of damage, based on quantification of plastic rearrangements and on dissipated energy.
Strikingly, the fraction of particles that undergo plastic rearrangements, and a percolation transition they undergo, are predictive of failure.
We also find a robust power law relationship between accumulated damage, quantified by dissipated energy or non-affine displacements, and the failure times, which permits prediction of failure times based on behavior in the initial cycles.
These observations reveal salient new microscopic features of fatigue failure and suggest approaches for developing a full microscopic picture of fatigue failure in amorphous solids.
Fatigue crack advance induced by the application of cyclic quasistatic loads is investigated both numerically and analytically using a lattice spring model.
The system has a quasi-one-dimensional geometry, and consists in two symmetrical chains that are pulled apart, thus breaking springs which connect them, and producing the advance of a crack.
Quasistatic crack advance occurs as a consequence of the plasticity included in the springs which form the chains, and that implies a history dependent stress-strain curve for each spring.
The continuous limit of the model allows a detailed analytical treatment that gives physical insight of the propagation mechanism.
This simple model captures key features that cause well known phenomenology in fatigue crack propagation, in particular a Paris-like law of crack advance under cyclic loading, and the overload retardation effect.
Mode II fatigue crack growth under reversed shear and static biaxial compression was investigated in two bearing steels.
Many aborted branches, quasi-orthogonal to the main crack, were observed along the crack face.
The compressive stress parallel to the main crack hindered the growth of these branches and favored coplanar mode II crack growth.
The crack face sliding displacement profiles measured by DIC were used to derive $Δ_{\rm KII,eff}$, at the main crack tip, using elastic-plastic FE simulations with crack face friction, by an inverse method.
Friction corrected crack growth kinetics were obtained for mode II crack growth in both steels.
For the numerical simulation of time-dependent problems, recent works suggest the use of a time marching scheme based on a tensorial decomposition of the time axis.
This time-separated representation is straightforwardly introduced in the framework of the Proper Generalized Decomposition (PGD).
The time coordinate is transformed into a multi-dimensional time through new separated coordinates, the micro and the macro times.
From a physical viewpoint, the time evolution of all the quantities involved in the problem can be followed along two time scales, the fast one (micro-scale) and the slow one (macro-scale).
In this paper, the method is applied to compute the quasi-static response of an elasto-plastic structure under cyclic loadings.
The study shows the existence of a physically consistent temporal decomposition in computational cyclic plasticity.
Such micro-macro characterization may be particularly appealing in high-cycle loading analyses, such as aging and fatigue, addressed in a future work in progress.
In this paper, we continue the enumeration of Schur rings over cyclic groups.
Cyclic groups of semiprime order $pq$, where $p$ and $q$ are distinct primes, are considered.
Additionally, cyclic groups of order $4p$ are considered.
We study tori which are cyclic covers of the standard torus, that is, the deck transformation group of the covering map is cyclic.
These covering tori can be parametrized in a natural way and we show that being cyclic is equivalent to certain arithmetic condition on these parameters.
There is a natural $\mathrm{SL}(2,\mathbb{Z})$-action on covering tori and introducing a complete numeric $\mathrm{SL}(2,\mathbb{Z})$-invariant we show that, for $n\in\mathbb{N}$, all $n$-tuple cyclic covers are in the same $\mathrm{SL}(2,\mathbb{Z})$-orbit.
We show that cyclic covers are irreducible in a precise sense and we give the exact and asymptotic number of these covers.
This paper studies the behaviour of a thin titanium nitride (TiN) coating (1.5 um thick) on a tool steel substrate material under dynamic and cyclic impacts through an approach combining experimental testing and computational modelling.
Dynamic impact testing was used to investigate the load-dependent dynamic hardness and assess the energy-dissipation capabilities of the coating system.
In cyclic impact tests, the materials experienced permanent plastic deformation in each cycle, ultimately leading to coating failure.
Chemical analysis identified an interlayer between the coating and the substrate, while cross-sectional analysis revealed the extent of coating damage due to cycling and impact load.
A three-dimensional map was constructed, connecting the acceleration load, sensed depth, and cycles to the coating failure, and an empirical equation used to characterize the relationship between the depth and cycles to failure.
The computational model examined the traction component distribution during loading and unloading, with a focus on normal and shear tractions.
These findings suggested the potential significance of normal traction in the interfacial fatigue failure due to impact.
We prove that the $p$-adically completed periodic topological cyclic homology of a DG category over a perfect field $k$ of characteristic $p>2$ is isomorphic to the ($p$-adically completed) periodic cyclic homology of a lifting of the DG category over the Witt vectors $W(k)$.
The hardness to solve an unstructured quantum search problem by a standard quantum search algorithm mainly originates from the low efficiency to amplify the amplitude of the marked state by the oracle unitary operation associated with other known quantum operations.
In order to bypass the square speedup limitation of a standard quantum search algorithm it is necessary to develop other type of quantum search algorithms.
It is described in detail in the paper for a quantum dynamical method to solve the quantum search problems in the cyclic group state space.
The binary dynamical representation for a quantum state in the Hilbert space of the n-qubit quantum system is generalized to the multi-base dynamical representation for a quantum state in the cyclic group state space.
Thus, any quantum state in the cyclic group state space may be described completely in terms of a set of dynamical parameters that are closely related to the symmetric property and structure of the cyclic group.
The quantum search problem therefore could be solved by determining the set of dynamical parameters that describe completely the unknown marked state of the search problem instead by directly measuring the marked state which is a necessary step in the standard quantum search algorithm.
An unstructured quantum search problem in the Hilbert space is inevitably affected greatly by the symmetric property and structure of a group.
The main attempt of the paper is to make use of the symmetric properties and structures of groups to help solving the quantum search problems in the group state spaces.
It is shown how the quantum search process could be reduced from the cyclic group state space to these cyclic group state subspaces with the help of the symmetric property and structure of the cyclic group on a universal quantum computer.
Let $Q$ be a commutative, Noetherian ring and $Z \subseteq \operatorname{Spec}(Q)$ a closed subset.
Define $K_0^Z(Q)$ to be the Grothendieck group of those bounded complexes of finitely generated projective $Q$-modules that have homology supported on $Z$.
We develop "cyclic" Adams operations on $K_0^Z(Q)$ and we prove these operations satisfy the four axioms used by Gillet and Soulé in their paper "Intersection Theory Using Adams Operations".
From this we recover a shorter proof of Serre's Vanishing Conjecture.
We also show our cyclic Adams operations agree with the Adams operations defined by Gillet and Soulé in certain cases.
In this paper, we introduce and study a cyclic cohomology theory $H^\bullet_λ(A,C,ψ)$ for an entwining structure $(A,C,ψ)$ over a field $k$.
We then provide a complete description of the cocycles and the coboundaries in this theory using entwined traces applied to dg-entwining structures over $(A,C,ψ)$.
We then apply these descriptions to construct a pairing $ H^m_λ(A,C,ψ) \otimes H^n_λ(A',C',ψ') \longrightarrow H^{m+n}_λ(A \otimes A', C \otimes C', ψ\otimes ψ') $, where $(A,C,ψ)$ and $(A',C',ψ')$ are entwining structures.
This paper is concerned with the theory of cup-products in Hopf-type cyclic cohomology of algebras and coalgebras.
Here we give detailed proofs of the statements, announced in our previous paper.
We show that the cyclic cohomology of a coalgebra can be obtained from a construction involving noncommutative Weil algebra.
Then we use a generalization of Quillen and Crainic's construction to define the cup-product.
We discuss the relation of the introduced cup-product and $S$-operations on cyclic cohomology.
After this we describe the relation of this type of product and bivariant cyclic cohomology.
In the last section we briefly discuss the relation of our constructions with that of Khalkhali and Rangipour.
We present a simple, nearly model-independent estimate that yields the predictions of the simplest inflationary and ekpyrotic/cyclic models for the spectral tilt of the primordial density inhomogeneities.
Remarkably, we find that the simplest models yield an identical result: n_s is approximately 0.95.
For inflation, the same estimate predicts a ratio of tensor to scalar contributions to the low multipoles of the microwave background anisotropy of T/S=20%; the tensor contribution is negligible for ekpyrotic/cyclic models.
First we describe a class of homotopy Frobenius algebras via cyclic operads which we call cyclic $A_\infty$ algebras.
We then define a suitable new combinatorial operad which acts on the Hochschild cochains of such an algebra in a manner which encodes the homotopy BV structure.
Moreover we show that this operad is equivalent to the cellular chains of a certain topological (quasi)-operad of CW complexes whose constituent spaces form a homotopy associative version of the Cacti operad of Voronov.
These cellular chains thus constitute a chain model for the framed little disks operad, proving a cyclic $A_\infty$ version of Deligne's conjecture.
This chain model contains the minimal operad of Kontsevich and Soibelman as a suboperad and restriction of the action to this suboperad recovers their results in the unframed case.
Additionally this proof recovers the work of Kaufmann in the case of a strict Frobenius algebra.
We then extend our results to cyclic $A_\infty$ categories, with an eye toward the homotopy BV structure present on the Hochschild cochains of the Fukaya category of a suitable symplectic manifold.
The pairings between the cyclic cohomologies and the K-theories of separable $C^\ast$-algebras supply topological invariants that often relate to physical response coefficients of materials.
Using three numerical simulations, we exemplify how some of these invariants survive throughout the full Sobolev domains of the cocycles.
These interesting phenomena, which can be explained by index theorems derived from Alain Connes' quantized calculus, are now well understood in the independent electron picture.
Here, we review recent developments addressing the dynamics of correlated many-fermions systems, obtained in collaboration with Bram Mesland.
They supply a complete characterization of an algebra of relevant derivations over the $C^\ast$-algebra of canonical anti-commutation relations indexed by a generic discrete Delone lattice.
It is argued here that these results already supply the means to generate interesting and relevant states over this algebra of derivations and to identify the cyclic cocycles corresponding to the transport coefficients of the many-fermion systems.
The existing index theorems for the pairings of these cocycles, in the restrictive single fermion setting, are reviewed and updated with an emphasis on pushing the analysis on Sobolev domains.
An assessment of possible generalizations to the many-body setting is given.
Recent improvements in additive manufacturing and high-throughput material synthesis have enabled the discovery of novel metallic materials for extreme environments.
However, high-fidelity testing of advanced mechanical properties such as fatigue strength, has often been the most time-consuming and resource-intensive step of material discovery, thereby slowing down the adoption of novel materials.
This work presents a new method for rapid characterization of the fatigue properties of many compositions while only testing a single specimen.
The approach utilizes high-resolution digital image correlation along with a computer vision model to extract the relationship between localized plastic deformation events and associated mechanical properties.
The approach is initially validated on an additive manufactured 316L dataset, then applied to a functionally graded additive manufactured specimen with a composition gradient across the gauge length.
This allows for the characterization of multiple compositions, orders of magnitude faster than traditional methods.
We calculate the additive structure (together with the grading) of the Hochschild homology and cohomology and the cyclic homology of preprojective algebras of types ADE.
Hans Zassenhaus conjectured that every torsion unit of the integral group ring of a finite group $G$ is conjugate within the rational group algebra to an element of the form $\pm g$ with $g\in G$.
This conjecture has been disproved recently for metabelian groups, by Eisele and Margolis.
However it is known to be true for many classes of solvable groups, as for example nilpotent groups, cyclic-by-abelian groups and groups having a cyclic Sylow subgroup with abelian complement.
On the other hand, it is not known whether the conjecture holds for supersolvable groups.
This paper is a contribution to this question.
More precisely, we study the conjecture for the class of cyclic-by-nilpotent groups with special attention to the class of cyclic-by-Hamiltonian groups.
We prove the conjecture for cyclic-by-$p$-groups and for a large class of cyclic-by-Hamiltonian groups.
In this paper, we study cyclic stabiliser codes over $\mathbb{F}_p$ of length dividing $p^t+1$ for some positive integer $t$.
We call these $t$-Frobenius codes or just Frobenius codes for short.
We give methods to construct them and show that they have efficient decoding algorithms.
An important subclass of stabiliser codes are the linear stabiliser codes.
For linear Frobenius codes we have stronger results: We completely characterise all linear Frobenius codes.
As a consequence, we show that for every integer $n$ that divides $p^t+1$ for an odd $t$, there are no linear cyclic codes of length $n$.
On the other hand for even $t$, we give an explicit method to construct all of them.
This gives us a many explicit example of Frobenius codes which include the well studied Laflamme code.
We show that the classical notion of BCH distance can be generalised to all the Frobenius codes that we construct, including the non-linear ones, and show that the algorithm of Berlekamp can be generalised to correct quantum errors within the BCH limit.
This gives, for the first time, a family of codes that are neither CSS nor linear for which efficient decoding algorithm exits.
The explicit examples that we construct are summarised in Table \ref{tab:explicit-examples-short} and explained in detail in Tables \ref{tab:explicit-examples-2} (linear case) and \ref{tab:explicit-examples-3} (non-linear case).
We study exceptional collections of line bundles on surfaces.
We prove that any full cyclic strong exceptional collection of line bundles on a rational surface is an augmentation in the sense of L.Hille and M.Perling.
We find simple geometric criteria of exceptionality (strong exceptionality, cyclic strong exceptionality) for collections of line bundles on weak del Pezzo surfaces.
As a result, we classify smooth projective surfaces admitting a full cyclic strong exceptional collection of line bundles.
Also, we provide an example of a weak del Pezzo surface of degree 2 and a full strong exceptional collection of line bundles on it which does not come from augmentations, thus answering a question by Hille and Perling.
The Prym map assigns to each covering of curves a polarized abelian variety.
In the case of unramified cyclic covers of curves of genus two, we show that the Prym map is ramified precisely on the locus of bielliptic covers.
The key observation is that we can naturally associate to such a cover an abelian surface with a cyclic polarization, and then the codifferential of the Prym map can be interpreted in terms of multiplication of sections on the abelian surface.
Furthermore, we give a different proof of a result by Ramanan that a genus two cyclic cover of degree sufficiently high is never hyperelliptic.
Fatigue crack growth in ductile materials is primarily driven by the interaction between damaging and shielding mechanisms.
In the Paris regime, the predominant mechanism for retardation is plasticity-induced crack closure (PICC).
However, some of the mechanisms behind this phenomenon are still unclear.
Identifying and separating the three-dimensional aspect from other shielding aspects during experiments is extremely complex.
In this paper, we analyze the crack opening kinematics based on local crack opening displacement measurements in both 2D high-resolution digital image correlation data and 3D finite element simulations.
The results confirm that the crack opening stress intensity factor Kop differs along the crack path.
We present a new method to determine Kop at the crack front allowing us to identify PICC as the predominant shielding mechanism in fatigue crack growth experiments.
Furthermore, this work contributes to the discussion on the damage-reducing effect of PICC, since we find that the influence on fatigue damage in the plastic zone remains negligible when the crack is closed and crack surface contact is directed towards the surface.
Fatigue failure occurs when a solid is subjected to repeated, cyclic loading.
Glasses subjected to cyclic to shear deformation have recently been investigated using computer simulations and theoretical models, to characterize and rationalize the dependence of the number of cycles to failure, depending on the properties of the glasses, and the deformation amplitude.
The average number of cycles to failure has been observed to diverge as the strain amplitude approaches the so-called fatigue limit from above.
In this work, rather than the average times themselves, we investigate by computer simulations the distribution of fatigue failure times, in model glasses subjected to cyclic shear deformation and in an elasto-plastic model.
In particular, we observe in atomistic simulations that the standard deviation of the logarithm of failure times are proportional to their mean values, with the proportionality constant decreasing as the system size increases, indicating a sharper distribution of failure times.
Using a finite-element-based elasto-plastic model, we observe similar behavior and perform a system-size analysis showing that the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean tends toward zero in the thermodynamic limit.
Such distributions, rather than arising solely from the distribution of disorder in the samples that have been subjected to cyclic deformation, appear to arise from the intrinsic stochasticity of the failure process, which we analyze through a stochastic damage accumulation model.
Graph connectivity serves as a fundamental metric for evaluating the reliability and fault tolerance of interconnection networks.
To more precisely characterize network robustness, the concept of cyclic connectivity has been introduced, requiring that there are at least two components containing cycles after removing the vertex set.
This property ensures the preservation of essential cyclic communication structures under faulty conditions.
Cayley graphs exhibit several ideal properties for interconnection networks, which permits identical routing protocols at all vertices, facilitates recursive constructions, and ensures operational robustness.
In this paper, we investigate the cyclic connectivity of Cayley graphs generated by unicyclic triangle free graphs.
Given an symmetric group $Sym(n)$ on $\left\{ 1,2,\dots,n\right\}$ and a set $\mathcal{T}$ of transpositions of $Sym(n)$.
Let $G(\mathcal{T})$ be the graph on vertex set $\left\{ 1,2,\dots,n\right\}$ and edge set $\left\{ij\colon(ij)\in \mathcal{T}\right\}$.
If $G(\mathcal{T})$ is a unicyclic triangle free graphs, then denoted the Cayley graph Cay$(Sym(n),\mathcal{T})$ by $UG_{n}$.
As a result, we determine the exact value of cyclic connectivity of $UG_{n}$ as $κ_{c}(UG_{n})=4n-8$ for $n\ge 4 $.
Cyclic reduction is a method for the solution of (block-)tridiagonal linear systems.
In this note we review the method tailored to hermitian positive definite banded linear systems.
The reviewed method has the following advantages: It is numerically stable without pivoting.
It is suitable for parallel computations.
In the presented form, it uses fewer computations by exploiting symmetry.
Like Cholesky, the reviewed method breaks down when the matrix is not positive definite, offering a robust way for determining positive definiteness.
Causal modelling frameworks link observable correlations to causal explanations, which is a crucial aspect of science.
These models represent causal relationships through directed graphs, with vertices and edges denoting systems and transformations within a theory.
Most studies focus on acyclic causal graphs, where well-defined probability rules and powerful graph-theoretic properties like the d-separation theorem apply.
However, understanding complex feedback processes and exotic fundamental scenarios with causal loops requires cyclic causal models, where such results do not generally hold.
While progress has been made in classical cyclic causal models, challenges remain in uniquely fixing probability distributions and identifying graph-separation properties applicable in general cyclic models.
In cyclic quantum scenarios, existing frameworks have focussed on a subset of possible cyclic causal scenarios, with graph-separation properties yet unexplored.
This work proposes a framework applicable to all consistent quantum and classical cyclic causal models on finite-dimensional systems.
We address these challenges by introducing a robust probability rule and a novel graph-separation property, p-separation, which we prove to be sound and complete for all such models.
Our approach maps cyclic causal models to acyclic ones with post-selection, leveraging the post-selected quantum teleportation protocol.
We characterize these protocols and their success probabilities along the way.
We also establish connections between this formalism and other classical and quantum frameworks to inform a more unified perspective on causality.
This provides a foundation for more general cyclic causal discovery algorithms and to systematically extend open problems and techniques from acyclic informational networks (e.g., certification of non-classicality) to cyclic causal structures and networks.
This paper is an appendix to the paper "Random walks on free products of cyclic groups" by J.Mairesse and F.Mathéus.
It contains the details of the computations and the proofs of the results concerning the examples treated there.
Many people are aware of the theory of elastic fracture originated by AA Griffith, and although Griffith used the theorem of minimum potential energy most people seem unaware of the broader implications of this theorem.
If it is set within its classical mechanics roots, it is clear that it is a restricted form of a Lagrangian.
In advanced texts on fracture cracks are treated as dynamic entities, and the role of stress waves is clearly articulated.
However, in most non-advanced texts on fracture and fatigue the role of stress waves are either not included or not emphasised, often leading to a possible misunderstanding of the fundamentals of fracture.
What is done here is to extend Griffiths approach by setting it within the concept of Stationary Action, and introducing a quasi-static stress wave unloading model, which connects the energy release mechanism with the stress field.
This leads to a definition of a dynamic stress intensity factor, and this model is then applied to fatigue of perfectly elastic and elastic-plastic materials to include crack tip plasticity.
The results for the Griffiths crack and the dynamic case are retrodiction, to establish the validity of the methods used.
The extension to fatigue gives significant new results, which show that for elastic-plastic materials the influence of the maximum stress in the cycle as a fraction of the yield stress, called the yield stress ratio, has not been recognised.
The new form of the fatigue crack growth relationship derived answers many of the long standing questions about the Paris Law.
We determine several necessary and sufficient conditions for a closed almost-complex orbifold $Q$ with cyclic local groups to admit a nonvanishing vector field.
These conditions are stated separately in terms of the orbifold Euler-Satake characteristics of $Q$ and its sectors, the Euler characteristics of the underlying topological spaces of $Q$ and its sectors, and in terms of the orbifold Euler class $e_{orb}(Q)$ in Chen-Ruan orbifold cohomology $H_{orb}^\ast (Q; \R)$.
We calculate the deformed and non-deformed cohomological Hall algebra (CoHA) of the preprojective algebra for the case of cyclic quivers by studying the Kontsevich-Soibelman CoHA and using tools from cohomological Donaldson-Thomas theory.
We show that for the cyclic quiver of length $K$, this algebra is the universal enveloping algebra of the positive half of a certain extension of matrix differential operators on $\mathbb{C}^{*}$, while its deformation gives a positive half of an explicit integral form of Guay's Affine Yangian $\ddot{\mathcal{Y}}_{\hbar_1,\hbar_2}(\mathfrak{gl}(K))$.
By the main theorem of Botta-Davison (2023) and Schiffmann-Vasserot (2023), we also determine the Maulik-Okounkov Yangian for the case of cyclic quivers.
Furthermore, we explain the construction of factorization coproduct, provide evidence for the strong rationality conjecture, calculate the spherical subalgebra of the non-deformed CoHA for any quiver without loops, recover results about the CoHA of compactly supported semistable sheaves on the minimal resolution of the Kleinian singularity $\mathbb{C}^2/\mathbb{Z}_{K}$ and identify a commutative algebra inside the additive shuffle algebra associated to the cyclic quiver.
We end by conjecturally relating the obtained integral form with the algebra defined by Gaiotto-Rapčák-Zhou, in the context of twisted M-theory.
We investigate the previously proposed cyclic regime of the Kosterlitz-Thouless renormalization group (RG) flows.
The period of one cycle is computed in terms of the RG invariant.
Using bosonization, we show that the theory has $U_q (\hat{sl(2)})$ quantum affine symmetry, with $q$ {\it real}.
Based on this symmetry, we study two possible S-matrices for the theory, differing only by overall scalar factors.
We argue that one S-matrix corresponds to a continuum limit of the XXZ spin chain in the anti-ferromagnetic domain $Δ< -1$.
The latter S-matrix has a periodicity in energy consistent with the cyclicity of the RG.
We conjecture that this S-matrix describes the cyclic regime of the Kosterlitz-Thouless flows.
The other S-matrix we investigate is an analytic continuation of the usual sine-Gordon one.
It has an infinite number of resonances with masses that have a Russian doll scaling behavior that is also consistent with the period of the RG cycles computed from the beta-function.
Closure of the bootstrap for this S-matrix leads to an infinite number of particles of higher spin with a mass formula suggestive of a string theory.
We provide an equivalent condition for the monogenity of the ring of integers of any cyclic cubic field.
We show that if a cyclic cubic field is monogenic then it is a simplest cubic field $K_t$ which is the splitting field of a Shanks cubic polynomial $f_t(x):=x^3-tx^2-(t + 3)x-1$ with $t \in \mathbb Z$.
Moreover we give an equivalent condition for when $K_t$ is monogenic, which is explicitly written in terms of $t$.
We prove that given a Hitchin representation in a real split rank 2 group $\mathsf G_0$, there exists a unique equivariant minimal surface in the corresponding symmetric space.
As a corollary, we obtain a parametrization of the Hitchin components by a Hermitian bundle over Teichmüller space.
The proof goes through introducing holomorphic curves in a suitable bundle over the symmetric space of $\mathsf G_0$.
Some partial extensions of the construction hold for cyclic bundles in higher rank.
For a (co)monad T_l on a category M, an object X in M, and a functor Π: M \to C, there is a (co)simplex Z^*:=ΠT_l^{* +1} X in C.
Our aim is to find criteria for para-(co)cyclicity of Z^*.
Construction is built on a distributive law of T_l with a second (co)monad T_r on M, a natural transformation i:ΠT_l \to ΠT_r, and a morphism w: T_r X \to T_l X in M.
The relations i and w need to satisfy are categorical versions of Kaygun's axioms of a transposition map.
Motivation comes from the observation that a (co)ring T over an algebra R determines a distributive law of two (co)monads T_l=T \otimes_R (-) and T_r = (-)\otimes_R T on the category of R-bimodules.
The functor Πcan be chosen such that Z^n= T\hat{\otimes}_R... \hat{\otimes}_R T \hat{\otimes}_R X is the cyclic R-module tensor product.
A natural transformation i:T \hat{\otimes}_R (-) \to (-) \hat{\otimes}_R T is given by the flip map and a morphism w: X \otimes_R T \to T\otimes_R X is constructed whenever T is a (co)module algebra or coring of an R-bialgebroid.
Stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd modules over certain bialgebroids, so called x_R-Hopf algebras, are introduced.
In the particular example when T is a module coring of a x_R-Hopf algebra B and X is a stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd B-module, the para-cyclic object Z_* is shown to project to a cyclic structure on T^{\otimes_R *+1} \otimes_B X.
For a B-Galois extension S \to T, a stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd B-module T_S is constructed, such that the cyclic objects B^{\otimes_R *+1} \otimes_B T_S and T^ {\hat{\otimes}_S *+1} are isomorphic.
As an application, we compute Hochschild and cyclic homology of a groupoid with coefficients, by tracing it back to the group case.
In particular, we obtain explicit expressions for ordinary Hochschild and cyclic homology of a groupoid.
We study pro excision in algebraic K-theory, following Suslin--Wodzicki, Cuntz--Quillen, Cortiñas, and Geisser--Hesselholt, as well as Artin--Rees and continuity properties of André--Quillen, Hochschild, and cyclic homology.
Our key tool is to first establish the equivalence of various pro Tor vanishing conditions which appear in the literature.
Using this we prove that all ideals of commutative, Noetherian rings are pro unital in a certain sense, and show that such ideals satisfy pro excision in $K$-theory as well as in cyclic and topological cyclic homology.
In addition, our techniques yield a strong form of the pro Hochschild--Kostant--Rosenberg theorem, an extension to general base rings of the Cuntz--Quillen excision theorem in periodic cyclic homology, and a generalisation of the Feĭgin--Tsygan theorem.
For spacetimes containing quiescent singularity hypersurfaces we propose a general notion of junction conditions based on a prescribed singularity scattering map, as we call it, and we introduce the notion of a cyclic spacetime (also called a multiverse) consisting of spacetime domains bounded by spacelike or timelike singularity hypersurfaces, across which our scattering map is applied.
A local existence theory is established here while, in a companion paper, we construct plane-symmetric cyclic spacetimes.
We study the singularity data space consisting of the suitably rescaled metric, extrinsic curvature, and matter fields which can be prescribed on each side of the singularity, and for the class of so-called quiescent singularities we establish restrictions that a singularity scattering map must satisfy.
We obtain a full characterization of all scattering maps that are covariant and ultralocal, in a sense we define and, in particular, we distinguish between, on the one hand, three laws of bouncing cosmology of universal nature and, on the other hand, model-dependent junction conditions.
The theory proposed in this paper applies to spacelike and timelike hypersurfaces and without symmetry restriction.
It encompasses bouncing-cosmology scenarios, both in string theory and in loop quantum cosmology, and puts strong restrictions on their possible explicit realizations.
We present a compelling finite element framework to model hydrogen assisted fatigue by means of a hydrogen- and cycle-dependent cohesive zone formulation.
The model builds upon: (i) appropriate environmental boundary conditions, (ii) a coupled mechanical and hydrogen diffusion response, driven by chemical potential gradients, (iii) a mechanical behavior characterized by finite deformation J2 plasticity, (iv) a phenomenological trapping model, (v) an irreversible cohesive zone formulation for fatigue, grounded on continuum damage mechanics, and (vi) a traction-separation law dependent on hydrogen coverage calculated from first principles.
The computations show that the present scheme appropriately captures the main experimental trends; namely, the sensitivity of fatigue crack growth rates to the loading frequency and the environment.
The role of yield strength, work hardening, and constraint conditions in enhancing crack growth rates as a function of the frequency is thoroughly investigated.
The results reveal the need to incorporate additional sources of stress elevation, such as gradient-enhanced dislocation hardening, to attain a quantitative agreement with the experiments.
For a tuple $A=(A_1,\ A_2,\ ...,\ A_n)$ of elements in a unital algebra ${\mathcal B}$ over $\mathbb{C}$, its {\em projective spectrum} $P(A)$ or $p(A)$ is the collection of $z\in \mathbb{C}^n$, or respectively $z\in \mathbb{P}^{n-1}$ such that the multi-parameter pencil $A(z)=z_1A_1+z_2A_2+\cdots +z_nA_n$ is not invertible in ${\mathcal B}$. ${\mathcal B}$-valued $1$-form $A^{-1}(z)dA(z)$ contains much topological information about $P^c(A):=\mathbb{C}^n\setminus P(A)$.
In commutative cases, invariant multi-linear functionals are effective tools to extract that information.
This paper shows that in non-commutative cases, the cyclic cohomology of ${\mathcal B}$ does a similar job.
In fact, a Chen-Weil type map $κ$ from the cyclic cohomology of ${\mathcal B}$ to the de Rham cohomology $H^*_d(P^c(A),\ \mathbb{C})$ is established.
As an example, we prove a closed high-order form of the classical Jacobi's formula.
In this paper, we extend a micromechanics-based phase-field framework for fatigue fracture to incorporate cyclic plasticity with ratcheting.
This mechanism is particularly relevant for low-cycle fatigue, where the accumulation of inelastic strains plays a critical role in the progression to final failure.
An energetic formulation is proposed in which the ratcheting strain is explicitly incorporated into both the free energy and the dissipation potential. Ratcheting is modeled within a pressure-dependent, non-associative plasticity framework through the evolution of a ratcheting strain that progressively accumulates over loading cycles, capturing the characteristic inelastic strain growth of cyclic plasticity in a thermodynamically consistent manner.
The plastic potential is formulated such that the deviatoric and volumetric components of ratcheting can be controlled independently.
A staggered solution scheme is employed to solve for the internal variables, including the ratcheting strain.
Numerical examples under monotonic and cyclic loading conditions are presented to evaluate the proposed model and to investigate the influence of ratcheting on the material response.
Functional causal models (fCMs) specify functional dependencies between random variables associated to the vertices of a graph.
In directed acyclic graphs (DAGs), fCMs are well-understood: a unique probability distribution on the random variables can be easily specified, and a crucial graph-separation result called the d-separation theorem allows one to characterize conditional independences between the variables.
However, fCMs on cyclic graphs pose challenges due to the absence of a systematic way to assign a unique probability distribution to the fCM's variables, the failure of the d-separation theorem, and lack of a generalization of this theorem that is applicable to all consistent cyclic fCMs.
In this work, we develop a causal modeling framework applicable to all cyclic fCMs involving finite-cardinality variables, except inconsistent ones admitting no solutions.
Our probability rule assigns a unique distribution even to non-uniquely solvable cyclic fCMs and reduces to the known rule for uniquely solvable fCMs.
We identify a class of fCMs, called averagely uniquely solvable, that we show to be the largest class where the probabilities admit a Markov factorization.
Furthermore, we introduce a new graph-separation property, p-separation, and prove this to be sound and complete for all consistent finite-cardinality cyclic fCMs while recovering the d-separation theorem for DAGs.
These results are obtained by considering classical post-selected teleportation protocols inspired by analogous protocols in quantum information theory.
We discuss further avenues for exploration, linking in particular problems in cyclic fCMs and in quantum causality.
We survey free magmas and we explore the structure of their submagmas.
By equipping the cyclic free magma with a second distributive operation we obtain a ringoid-like structure with some primitive arithmetical properties.
A submagma is $k$-maximal when there are only $k-1$ submagmas between it and the free magma itself.
These two tools, arithmetic and maximality, allow us to study the lattice of the submagmas of a free magma.
For a prime number p, we construct a generating set for the ring of invariants for the p+1 dimensional indecomposable modular representation of a cyclic group of order p^2.
We then use the constructed invariants to describe the decomposition of the symmetric algebra as a module over the group ring, confirming the Periodicity Conjecture of Ian Hughes and Gregor Kemper for this case.
The microstructural characteristics of a single crystalline nickel based superalloy (AM1) tested under high temperature fatigue at 950$^\circ$C are reported.
For repeated fatigue (R$_\varepsilon$=0) through a range of cycle numbers N with imposed total strain amplitude $Δ\varepsilon^t$, two main types of behaviour are found depending on N and $Δ\varepsilon^t$.
This allows a map of microstructures versus the number of cycles N and $Δ\varepsilon^t$ to be constructed.
A domain called A presents anisotropic microstructures due either to a partition of the plasticity throughout the k channels, or to an oriented coarsening of the k% precipitates of the so-called type N (rafts perpendicular to the loading axis).
The domain called H shows homogeneous deformation microstructures.
The coarsening observed in repeated fatigue is accounted for on the basis of a model proposed earlier in the literature by Véron.
Alternate fatigue (R$_\varepsilon$ = -1) also leads to the same type of coarsening, even for a very low number of cycles (N=113).
The microstructures observed are ascribed to internal stress effects and are related to the possible shearing of the precipitates and to different diffusion processes.
Cable-driven continuum robots offer high flexibility and lightweight design, making them well-suited for tasks in constrained and unstructured environments.
However, prolonged use can induce mechanical fatigue from plastic deformation and material degradation, compromising performance and risking structural failure.
In the state of the art, fatigue estimation of continuum robots remains underexplored, limiting long-term operation.
To address this, we propose a fatigue-aware continuum robot with three key innovations: (1) a Hybrid Hinge-Beam structure where TwistBeam and BendBeam decouple torsion and bending: passive revolute joints in the BendBeam mitigate stress concentration, while TwistBeam's limited torsional deformation reduces BendBeam stress magnitude, enhancing durability; (2) a Passive Stopper that safely constrains motion via mechanical constraints and employs motor torque sensing to detect corresponding limit torque, ensuring safety and enabling data collection; and (3) a real-time fatigue-awareness method that estimates stiffness from motor torque at the limit pose, enabling online fatigue estimation without additional sensors.
Experiments show that the proposed design reduces fatigue accumulation by about 49% compared with a conventional design, while passive mechanical limiting combined with motor-side sensing allows accurate estimation of structural fatigue and damage.
These results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed architecture for safe and reliable long-term operation.
Inspired by the available examples of Microcanonical Szilárd Engines and by the original Szilárd Engine, we devise a system with two degrees of freedom whose ensemble average energy, starting with a microcanical ensemble, decreases after a cyclic variation of its external parameters.
We use the Ergodic Adiabatic Theorem to motivate our cycle and numerical simulations to check the decrement in the average energy.
We then compare our system to the aforementioned Szilárd Engines, Microcanonical or not, and speculate about symmetry breaking being the cause of energy extraction in cyclic processes, even when non-integrability and chaos are present.
For a (not necessarily locally convex) topological vector space $\mathcal{X}$ of holomorphic functions in one complex variable, we show that the shift invariant subspace generated by a set of polynomials is $\mathcal{X}$ if and only if their common vanishing set contains no point at which the evaluation functional is continuous.
For two variables, we show that this problem can be reduced to determining the cyclicity of a single polynomial and obtain partial results for more than two variables.
We proceed to examine the maximal domain, i.e., the set of all points for which the evaluation functional is continuous.
When $\mathcal{X}$ is metrizable, we show that the maximal domain must be an $F_σ$ set, and then construct Hilbert function spaces on the unit disk whose maximal domain is the disk plus an arbitrary subset of the boundary that is both $F_σ$ and $G_δ$.
The focus is on discrete defects that can be modeled by continuum mechanics, but where the discreteness of the carriers of plastic deformation plays a significant role.
The formulations are restricted to small deformation kinematics and the defects considered, dislocations and discrete shear transformation zones (STZs), are described by their linear elastic fields.
In discrete defect plasticity both the stress-strain response and the partitioning between defect energy storage and defect dissipation are outcomes of an initial/boundary value problem solution.
Discrete dislocation plasticity modeling results are reviewed that illustrate the implications of defect dissipation evolution for friction, fatigue crack growth and thermal softening.
Examples are also given of consequences of three modes of the evolution of discrete defects for size dependence and dissipation in constrained shear.
The requirement that the dissipation rate is non-negative, which is a specialization of the Clausius-Duhem inequality for a purely mechanical formulation, imposes restrictions on kinetic relations for the evolution of discrete defects.
Explicit kinetic relations for discrete dislocation plasticity dissipation and for discrete STZ plasticity dissipation identify conditions that can lead to a negative dissipation rate.
The statistical mechanics form of the second law allows the Clausius-Duhem inequality to be violated for a sufficiently small number of discrete events for a short time period.
In continuum mechanics, at least in some circumstances, satisfaction of the Clausius-Duhem inequality can be regarded as a requirement for stability.
One dimensional continuum calculations illustrate that there can be a negative dissipation rate over a short distance and for a short time period with overall stability maintained.
Implications for discrete defect plasticity modeling are briefly discussed.
The growth of cracks combines materials science, fracture mechanics, and statistical physics.
The importance of fluctuations in the crack velocity is fundamental since it signals that the crack overcomes local barriers such as tough spots by avalanches.
In ductile materials the omnipresent plasticity close to the crack tip influences the growth by history effects, which we here study in polymethylmetacrylate by various fatigue and creep protocols.
We show how the crack tip local history may be encompassed in a time- and protocol dependent lengthscale, that allows to apply a statistical fracture description to the time-dependent crack growth rate, resolving the well-known paradox why fatigue cracks grow faster if the stress during a cycle is let to relax more from the peak value.
The results open up novel directions for understanding fracture by statistical physics.
A Skolem sequence of order n is a sequence S_n=(s_{1},s_{2},...,s_{2n}) of 2n integers containing each of the integers 1,2,...,n exactly twice, such that two occurrences of the integer j in {1,2,...,n} are separated by exactly j-1 integers.
We prove that the necessary conditions are sufficient for existence of two Skolem sequences of order n with 0,1,2,...,n-3 and n pairs in same positions.
Further, we apply this result to the fine structure of cyclic two, three and four-fold triple systems, and also to the fine structure of lambda-fold directed triple systems and lambda-fold Mendelsohn triple systems.
For a better understanding of the paper we added more details into a "Supplement".
Nuclei instance segmentation on histopathology images is of great clinical value for disease analysis.
Generally, fully-supervised algorithms for this task require pixel-wise manual annotations, which is especially time-consuming and laborious for the high nuclei density.
To alleviate the annotation burden, we seek to solve the problem through image-level weakly supervised learning, which is underexplored for nuclei instance segmentation.
Compared with most existing methods using other weak annotations (scribble, point, etc.) for nuclei instance segmentation, our method is more labor-saving.
The obstacle to using image-level annotations in nuclei instance segmentation is the lack of adequate location information, leading to severe nuclei omission or overlaps.
In this paper, we propose a novel image-level weakly supervised method, called cyclic learning, to solve this problem.
Cyclic learning comprises a front-end classification task and a back-end semi-supervised instance segmentation task to benefit from multi-task learning (MTL).
We utilize a deep learning classifier with interpretability as the front-end to convert image-level labels to sets of high-confidence pseudo masks and establish a semi-supervised architecture as the back-end to conduct nuclei instance segmentation under the supervision of these pseudo masks.
Most importantly, cyclic learning is designed to circularly share knowledge between the front-end classifier and the back-end semi-supervised part, which allows the whole system to fully extract the underlying information from image-level labels and converge to a better optimum.
Experiments on three datasets demonstrate the good generality of our method, which outperforms other image-level weakly supervised methods for nuclei instance segmentation, and achieves comparable performance to fully-supervised methods.
Metallic materials undergo irreversible deformation under mechanical loading, leading to intense local plastic localization that reduces their mechanical performance.
We identify a new mechanism of plastic deformation localization that dynamically promotes the homogenization of plasticity in face-centered cubic solid solution-strengthened metallic alloys.
We observe that this mechanism occurs within a narrow range of stacking fault energies and involves competing deformation between nanoscale twinning and slip.
This phenomenon is attributed to a new mechanism referred to as dynamic plastic deformation delocalization, which opens a new design space for enhancing the mechanical performance of metallic materials.
We demonstrate that the activation of this mechanism has a significant impact on fatigue properties, greatly enhancing fatigue strength when it occurs.
Iterative decoding techniques have gain popularity due to their performance and their application in most communications systems.
In this paper, we present a new application of our iterative decoder on the GPCB (Generalized Parallel Concatenated Block codes) which uses cyclic permutations.
We introduce a new variant of the component decoder.
After extensive simulation; the obtained result is very promising compared with several existing methods.
We evaluate the effects of various parameters component codes, interleaver size, block size, and the number of iterations.
Three interesting results are obtained; the first one is that the performances in terms of BER (Bit Error Rate) of the new constituent decoder are relatively similar to that of original one.
Secondly our turbo decoding outperforms another turbo decoder for some linear block codes.
Thirdly the proposed iterative decoding of GPCB-BCH (75, 51) is about 2.1dB from its Shannon limit.
Fatigue simulation requires accurate modeling of unloading and reloading.
However, classical ductile damage models treat deformations after complete failure as irrecoverable -- which leads to unphysical behavior during unloading.
This unphysical behavior stems from the continued accumulation of plastic strains after failure, resulting in an incorrect stress state at crack closure.
As a remedy, we introduce a discontinuity strain in the additive elasto-plastic strain decomposition, which absorbs the excess strain after failure.
This allows representing pre- and post-cracking regimes in a fully continuous setting, wherein the transition from the elasto-plastic response to cracking can be triggered at any arbitrary stage in a completely smooth manner.
Moreover, the presented methodology does not exhibit the spurious energy release observed in hybrid approaches.
In addition, our approach guarantees mesh-independent results by relying on a characteristic length scale -- based on the discretization's resolution.
We name this new methodology the discontinuous strain method.
The proposed approach requires only minor modifications of conventional plastic-damage routines.
To convey the method in a didactic manner, the algorithmic modifications are first discussed for one- and subsequently for two-/three-dimensional implementations.
Using a simple ductile constitutive model, the discontinuous strain method is validated against established two-dimensional benchmarks.
The method is, however, independent of the employed constitutive model.
Elastic, plastic, and damage models may thus be chosen arbitrarily.
Furthermore, computational efforts associated with the method are minimal, rendering it advantageous for accurately representing low-cycle fatigue but potentially also for other scenarios requiring a discontinuity representation within a plastic-damage framework.
This work is focused on the micromechanical modelling of the low cycle fatigue of the nickel based $γ/γ'$ superalloy AM1 at high temperature.
The nature of the activated slip systems in the different types of channels of the $γ$ phase is analysed, taking into account the combined effects of the applied and internal stresses.
The latter are split into two contributions, misfit stresses and compatibility stresses between the elastic $γ'$ phase and the elasto-plastic $γ$ phase, which are estimated within a simplified composite approach.
Internal stresses may induce slip activity and/or be relaxed by it, which results in a complex sequence of slip activation events in the different channels under increasing applied stress.
The consideration of these effects leads to a prediction of the nature and distribution of the active slip systems within the channels in [001] tension, compression and during low cycle fatigue.
The resulting microstructural behaviour and its consequences regarding the anisotropic nature of the coalescence of the $γ'$ precipitates are discussed with respect to the available experimental data.
In our recent paper entitled "Quantum Quasi-Cyclic Low-Density Parity-Check codes" [ICIC 2009.
LNCS 5754], it was claimed that some new quantum codes can be constructed via the CSS encoding/decoding approach with various lengths and rates.
However, the further investigation shows that the proposed construction may steal some ideas from the paper entitled "Quantum Quasi-Cyclic LDPC codes" [quant-ph/0701020v2].
We feel that the apologizing point of the original protocol is that some results are almost similar to that of construction methods with algebraic combinatorics although we suggest the different approach for improving them.
Also, there is a weak point of the original coding approach while considering the application of codes in imperfect channels.
Edtmair-Hutchings have recently defined, using periodic Floer homology, a U-cycle property for Hamiltonian isotopy classes of area-preserving diffeomorphisms of closed surfaces.
They show that every Hamiltonian isotopy class satisfying the U-cycle property satisfies the smooth closing lemma and also satisfies a kind of Weyl law involving the actions of certain periodic points; they show that every rational isotopy class on the two-torus satisfies the U-cycle property.
It seems that in general, not much is known about the U-module structure on PFH.
Here we consider a version of Seiberg-Witten-Floer cohomology which is known by the work of Lee-Taubes to be isomorphic, as a U-module, to the periodic Floer homology in sufficiently high degree.
We show that the analogous U-cycle property holds for every rational Hamiltonian isotopy class on any closed surface and, more generally, for any non-torsion spin-c structure.
On the other hand, we also show that a rational isotopy class may contain elements that are not U-cyclic.
By the Lee-Taubes isomorphism, the same results hold for PFH.
Our results are some of the first computations concerning the U-module structure on these theories.
One of the main objectives of quantum error-correction theory is to construct quantum codes with optimal parameters and properties.
In this paper, we propose a class of 2-generator quasi-cyclic codes and study their applications in the construction of quantum codes over small fields.
Firstly, some sufficient conditions for these 2-generator quasi-cyclic codes to be dual-containing concerning Hermitian inner product are determined.
Then, we utilize these Hermitian dual-containing quasi-cyclic codes to produce quantum codes via the famous Hermitian construction.
Moreover, we present a lower bound on the minimum distance of these quasi-cyclic codes, which is helpful to construct quantum codes with larger lengths and dimensions.
As the computational results, many new quantum codes that exceed the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound are constructed over $F_q$, where $q$ is $2,3,4,5$.
In particular, 16 binary quantum codes raise the lower bound on the minimum distance in Grassl's table \cite{Grassl:codetables}.
In nonbinary cases, many quantum codes are new or have better parameters than those in the literature.
Spiking neural networks (SNNs) could play a key role in unsupervised machine learning applications, by virtue of strengths related to learning from the fine temporal structure of event-based signals.
However, some spike-timing-related strengths of SNNs are hindered by the sensitivity of spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) rules to input spike rates, as fine temporal correlations may be obstructed by coarser correlations between firing rates.
In this article, we propose a spike-timing-dependent learning rule that allows a neuron to learn from the temporally-coded information despite the presence of rate codes.
Our long-term plasticity rule makes use of short-term synaptic fatigue dynamics.
We show analytically that, in contrast to conventional STDP rules, our fatiguing STDP (FSTDP) helps learn the temporal code, and we derive the necessary conditions to optimize the learning process.
We showcase the effectiveness of FSTDP in learning spike-timing correlations among processes of different rates in synthetic data.
Finally, we use FSTDP to detect correlations in real-world weather data from the United States in an experimental realization of the algorithm that uses a neuromorphic hardware platform comprising phase-change memristive devices.
Taken together, our analyses and demonstrations suggest that FSTDP paves the way for the exploitation of the spike-based strengths of SNNs in real-world applications.
Let $K$ be a field and $G$ be a finite group.
Let $G$ act on the rational function field $K(x(g):g\in G)$ by $K$ automorphisms defined by $g\cdot x(h)=x(gh)$ for any $g,h\in G$.
Denote by $K(G)$ the fixed field $K(x(g):g\in G)^G$.
Noether's problem then asks whether $K(G)$ is rational (i.e., purely transcendental) over $K$.
Let $p$ be any prime and let $G$ be a $p$-group of exponent $p^e$.
Assume also that {\rm (i)} char $K = p>0$, or {\rm (ii)} char $K \ne p$ and $K$ contains a primitive $p^e$-th root of unity.
In this paper we prove that if $G$ is any $p$-group of nilpotency class 2, which has the ABC (Abelian-By-Cyclic) property, then $K(G)$ is rational over $K$.
We also prove the rationality of $K(G)$ over $K$ for two 3-generator $p$-groups $G$ of arbitrary nilpotency class.
The proton-magnetic reaction is commonly used in MRI machines with a strong magnetic field of over 1 T, while this study hypothesized that the electron magnetic reaction of hydrogen could affect the hydrogen bonds of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) at a low magnetic field below 0.01 T.
The goal is to develop a hydrogen bonding magnetic reaction-based gene regulation (HBMR-GR) system.
The polarities of DNA base pairs are derived from the relative electrostatic charge between purines and pyrimidines, which become positively and negatively charged, respectively.
The Pyu dsDNAs with pyrimidine(s)-purine(s) sequences, ds3T3A, ds3C3G, and ds3C3A, showed stronger DNA hybridization potential, increased infrared absorption at 3400-3200 cm-1, and a unique DNA conformation in HPLC analysis compared to the corresponding Puy dsDNAs.
To target the three-dimensional structure of dsDNA based on the DNA base pair polarities, one can use cyclic electromagnetic DNA simulation (CEDS) with approximately 25% efficiency for randomly oriented dsDNAs.
CEDS was found to induce sequence-specific hybridization of target oligo-dsDNAs in 0.005M NaCl solution and sequence-specific conformation of oligo-dsDNAs in 0.1M NaCl solution.
It was found that the Pyu oligo-dsDNAs were more responsible for the hybridization and conformational changes by CEDS than the Puy oligo-dsDNAs.
CEDS decreased ethidium bromide (EtBr) DNA intercalation and spermidine DNA condensation depending on CEDS time in the binding assay.
The results also included that the Pyu oligo-dsDNAs were more responsible for CEDS by forming stable and unique conformation of oligo-dsDNA than the Therefore, it is postulated that the low-level HBMR-based CEDS can enhance the hybridization potential of oligo-dsDNAs and subsequently lead to the unique DNA conformation required for the initiation of various DNA functions.
For groups of diffeomorphisms of $\T^2$ containing an Anosov diffeomorphism, we give a complete classification for polycyclic Abelian-by-Cyclic group actions on $\T^2$ up to both topological conjugacy and smooth conjugacy under mild assumptions.
Along the way, we also prove a Tits alternative type theorem for some groups of diffeomorphisms of $\T^2$.
We present experimental wear data for polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) sliding on tile, sandpaper, and polished steel surfaces, as well as for soda-lime, borosilicate, and quartz glass sliding on sandpaper.
The results are compared with a recently developed theory \cite{ToBe} of sliding wear based on crack propagation (fatigue), originally formulated for elastic contact and here extended to include plasticity.
The elastoplastic wear model predicts wear rates that agree reasonably well with the experimental results for PMMA and soda-lime glass.
However, deviations observed for quartz suggest that material-specific deformation mechanisms, particularly the differences between crystalline and amorphous structures, may need to be considered for accurate wear predictions across different materials.
In addition, the model reveals a non-monotonic dependence of the wear rate on the penetration hardness $σ_{\rm P}$.
Thus, for plastically soft material, the wear rate increases with increasing $σ_{\rm P}$, while for hard materials, it decreases.
This contrasts with Archard's wear law, where the wear rate decreases monotonically with increasing $σ_{\rm P}$.
We completely characterize possible indices of quasi-cyclic subcodes in a cyclic code for a very broad class of cyclic codes.
We present enumeration results for quasi-cyclic subcodes of a fixed index and show that the problem of enumeration is equivalent to enumeration of certain vector subspaces in finite fields.
In particular, we present enumeration results for quasi-cyclic subcodes of the simplex code and duals of certain BCH codes.
Our results are based on the trace representation of cyclic codes.
We revisit the famous theorem of Albert's on the cyclicity of tensor products of cyclic $p$-algebras.
In the case of tensor products of cyclic $p$-algebras of prime degree, we provide an explicit computation of the resulting cyclic algebra in symbol algebra terms.
A group G is almost cyclic if there is an element x in G, such that for all g in G, there is an element y in G and an integer n with ygy^{-1} = x^n (that is, every element is conjugate to some power of x).
Ziller asked whether there are finitely-presented almost cyclic groups which are not cyclic in connection with work on closed geodesics.
Guba constructed an infinite (non-cyclic) finitely generated almost cyclic group.
The principal results of this paper are: Solvable almost cyclic groups are cyclic, and one-relator almost cyclic groups are cyclic.
We discuss certain types of cyclic and nearly cyclic interactions among N "point"-agents in the plane, leading to formations of interesting limiting geometric configurations.
Cyclic pursuit and local averaging interactions have been analyzed in the context of multi-agent gathering.
In this paper, we consider some nearly cyclic interactions that break symmetry leading to factor circulants rather than circulant interaction matrices.
In this note, we introduce the notion of an unramified strongly cyclic covering for a cyclic curve, a class that has similar properties to, and contains, unramified double covers of hyperelliptic curves.
We determine several of their basic properties, extending the theorems in \cite{MR2217998} to this larger class.
In particular, we will write down equations for smooth affine models, determine when they are isomorphic, and discuss the curves that they are ramified cyclic covers of.
A permutation statistic $\operatorname{st}$ is said to be shuffle-compatible if the distribution of $\operatorname{st}$ over the set of shuffles of two disjoint permutations $π$ and $σ$ depends only on $\operatorname{st}π$, $\operatorname{st}σ$, and the lengths of $π$ and $σ$.
Shuffle-compatibility is implicit in Stanley's early work on $P$-partitions, and was first explicitly studied by Gessel and Zhuang, who developed an algebraic framework for shuffle-compatibility centered around their notion of the shuffle algebra of a shuffle-compatible statistic.
For a family of statistics called descent statistics, these shuffle algebras are isomorphic to quotients of the algebra of quasisymmetric functions.
Recently, Domagalski, Liang, Minnich, Sagan, Schmidt, and Sietsema defined a version of shuffle-compatibility for statistics on cyclic permutations, and studied cyclic shuffle-compatibility through purely combinatorial means.
In this paper, we define the cyclic shuffle algebra of a cyclic shuffle-compatible statistic, and develop an algebraic framework for cyclic shuffle-compatibility in which the role of quasisymmetric functions is replaced by the cyclic quasisymmetric functions recently introduced by Adin, Gessel, Reiner, and Roichman.
We use our theory to provide explicit descriptions for the cyclic shuffle algebras of various cyclic permutation statistics, which in turn gives algebraic proofs for their cyclic shuffle-compatibility.
We prove excision in entire and periodic cyclic cohomology and construct a Chern-Connes character for Fredholm modules over a C*-algebra without summability restrictions, taking values in a variant of Connes's entire cyclic cohomology.
Before these results can be obtained, we have to sort out some fundamental questions about the class of algebras on which to define entire cyclic cohomology.
The right domain of definition for entire cyclic cohomology is the category of complete bornological algebras.
For these algebras, we define a bivariant cohomology theory, called analytic cyclic cohomology, that contains Connes's entire cyclic cohomology as a special case.
The definition of analytic cyclic cohomology is based on the Cuntz-Quillen approach to cyclic cohomology theories using tensor algebras and X-complexes.
The appropriate completion of the tensor algebra that yields analytic cyclic cohomology can be understood using an appropriate notion of analytic nilpotence.
In addition, we develop the elementary theory of analytic cyclic cohomology (smooth homotopy invariance, stability, Chern character in K-theory).
We characterize polynomials having the same set of nonzero cyclic resultants.
Generically, for a polynomial $f$ of degree $d$, there are exactly $2^{d-1}$ distinct degree $d$ polynomials with the same set of cyclic resultants as $f$.
However, in the generic monic case, degree $d$ polynomials are uniquely determined by their cyclic resultants.
Moreover, two reciprocal (``palindromic'') polynomials giving rise to the same set of nonzero cyclic resultants are equal. In the process, we also prove a unique factorization result in semigroup algebras involving products of binomials.
Finally, we discuss how our results yield algorithms for explicit reconstruction of polynomials from their cyclic resultants.
The purpose of this article is to embed the string topology bracket developed by Chas-Sullivan and Menichi on negative cyclic cohomology groups as well as the dual bracket found by de Thanhoffer de Voelcsey-Van den Bergh on negative cyclic homology groups into the global picture of a noncommutative differential (or Cartan) calculus up to homotopy on the (co)cyclic bicomplex in general, in case a certain Poincare' duality is given.
For negative cyclic cohomology, this in particular leads to a Batalin-Vilkovisky algebra structure on the underlying Hochschild cohomology.
In the special case in which this BV bracket vanishes, one obtains an e_3-algebra structure on Hochschild cohomology.
The results are given in the general and unifying setting of (opposite) cyclic modules over (cyclic) operads.
In this paper we study the connections between cyclic presentations of groups and branched cyclic coverings of (1,1)-knots.
In particular, we prove that every n-fold strongly-cyclic branched covering of a (1,1)-knot admits a cyclic presentation for the fundamental group encoded by a Heegaard diagram of genus n.
In this paper, we introduce a notion of categorified cyclic operad for set-based cyclic operads with symmetries.
Our categorification is obtained by relaxing defining axioms of cyclic operads to isomorphisms and by formulating coherence conditions for these isomorphisms.
The coherence theorem that we prove has the form "all diagrams of canonical isomorphisms commute".
Our coherence results come in two flavours, corresponding to the "entries-only" and "exchangeable-output" definitions of cyclic operads.
Our proof of coherence in the entries-only style is of syntactic nature and relies on the coherence of categorified non-symmetric operads established by Došen and Petrić.
We obtain the coherence in the exchangeable-output style by "lifting" the equivalence between entries-only and exchangeable-output cyclic operads, set up by the second author.
Finally, we show that a generalisation of the structure of profunctors of B\' enabou provides an example of categorified cyclic operad, and we exploit the coherence of categorified cyclic operads in proving that the Feynman category for cyclic operads, due to Kaufmann and Ward, admits an odd version.
In this survey article, we review some conceptual approaches to the cyclic category $Λ$, as well as its description as a crossed simplicial group.
We then give a new proof of the model structure on cyclic sets, work through the details of the generalized Reedy structure on cyclic spaces, and introduce model structures for cyclic Segal spaces and cyclic 2-Segal spaces.
This is the first one in a series of two papers on the continuation of our study in cup products in Hopf cyclic cohomology.
In this note we construct cyclic cocycles of algebras out of Hopf cyclic cocycles of algebras and coalgebras.
In the next paper we consider producing Hopf cyclic cocycle from "equivariant" Hopf cyclic cocycles.
Our approach in both situations is based on (co)cyclic modules and bi(co)cyclic modules together with Eilenberg-Zilber theorem which is different from the old definition of cup products defined via traces and cotraces on DG algebras and coalgebras.
Regularities in strings are often related to periods and covers, which have extensively been studied, and algorithms for their efficient computation have broad application.
In this paper we concentrate on computing cyclic regularities of strings, in particular, we propose several efficient algorithms for computing: (i) cyclic periodicity; (ii) all cyclic periodicity; (iii) maximal local cyclic periodicity; (iv) cyclic covers.
We construct model structures on cyclic dendroidal sets and cyclic dendroidal spaces for cyclic quasi-operads and complete cyclic dendroidal Segal spaces, respectively.
We show these models are Quillen equivalent to the model structure for simplicial cyclic operads.
This answers in the affirmative a question of the second author and Drummond-Cole concerning model structures for cyclic $\infty$-operads.
We infer similar statements for planar cyclic $\infty$-operads, providing the model-categorical foundation needed to complete Walde's program on the relationship between cyclic 2-Segal spaces and planar cyclic $\infty$-operads.
Superelastic NiTi 1 shape memory alloy (SMA) wire was subjected to thermomechanical loading tests in tension to evaluate stress and temperature conditions under which the wire deforms plastically.
Although the alloy demonstrated a very high resistance to plastic deformation in both the austenite and martensite phases, incremental plastic strains were recorded whenever the B2 cubic to B19' monoclinic martensitic transformation (MT) took place under external stress.
To shed light on the origin of the functional fatigue presumably originating from the accumulated plastic strains, special closed-loop thermomechanical loading tests were performed to evaluate recoverable and plastic strains generated by the forward and reverse MTs under external stress.
These experiments revealed that both forward and reverse MTs generate well-defined incremental plastic strains only if they occur above certain stress thresholds.
Specifically, the forward MT upon cooling under stresses up to 500 MPa does not produce plastic strain or lattice defects, whereas the reverse MT upon heating generates plastic strains even under stress as low as 100 MPa. It is proposed that plastic deformation generated by martensitic transformations under low stresses takes place by [100](001) dislocation slip in martensite and while under high stresses it occurs via kwinking deformation in martensite.
The characteristic thresholds and magnitudes of plastic strains generated by the forward and reverse MTs define the functional fatigue limits for NiTi.
Specifically, the stress-strain-temperature responses recorded in closed-loop thermomechanical tests remain stable if both forward and reverse MTs occur below these thresholds.
Conversely, they become unstable and exhibit predictable ratcheting if the MTs exceed these thresholds.
A proper edge coloring of a graph $G$ with colors $1,2,\dots,t$ is called a cyclic interval $t$-coloring if for each vertex $v$ of $G$ the edges incident to $v$ are colored by consecutive colors, under the condition that color $1$ is considered as consecutive to color $t$.
In this paper we introduce and investigate a new notion, the cyclic deficiency of a graph $G$, defined as the minimum number of pendant edges whose attachment to $G$ yields a graph admitting a cyclic interval coloring; this number can be considered as a measure of closeness of $G$ of being cyclically interval colorable.
We determine or bound the cyclic deficiency of several families of graphs.
In particular, we present examples of graphs of bounded maximum degree with arbitrarily large cyclic deficiency, and graphs whose cyclic deficiency approaches the number of vertices.
Finally, we conjecture that the cyclic deficiency of any graph does not exceed the number of vertices, and we present several results supporting this conjecture.
In this article we see quasi-cyclic codes as block cyclic codes.
We generalize some properties of cyclic codes to quasi-cyclic ones such as generator polynomials and ideals.
Indeed we show a one-to-one correspondence between l-quasi-cyclic codes of length m and ideals of M_l(Fq)[X]/(X^m-1).
This permits to construct new classes of codes, namely quasi-BCH and quasi-evaluation codes.
We study the parameters of such codes and propose a decoding algorithm up to half the designed minimum distance.
We even found one new quasi-cyclic code with better parameters than known [189, 11, 125]_F4 and 48 derivated codes beating the known bounds as well.
Prompted by a question of Jim Propp, this paper examines the cyclic sieving phenomenon (CSP) in certain cyclic codes.
For example, it is shown that, among dual Hamming codes over $F_q$, the generating function for codedwords according to the major index statistic (resp. the inversion statistic) gives rise to a CSP when $q=2$ or $q=3$ (resp. when $q=2$).
A byproduct is a curious characterization of the irreducible polynomials in $F_2[x]$ and $F_3[x]$ that are primitive.
In this article initial steps in an analysis of cyclic networks of quantum logic gates is given.
Cyclic networks are those in which the qubit lines are loops.
Here we have studied one and two qubit systems plus two qubit cyclic systems connected to another qubit on an acyclic line.
The analysis includes the group classification of networks and studies of the dynamics of the qubits in the cyclic network and of the perturbation effects of an acyclic qubit acting on a cyclic network.
This is followed by a discussion of quantum algorithms and quantum information processing with cyclic networks of quantum gates, and a novel implementation of a cyclic network quantum memory.
Quantum sensors via cyclic networks are also discussed.
We study the connections among the mapping class group of the twice punctured torus, the cyclic branched coverings of (1,1)-knots and the cyclic presentations of groups.
We give the necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence and uniqueness of the n-fold strongly-cyclic branched coverings of (1,1)-knots, through the elements of the mapping class group.
We prove that every n-fold strongly-cyclic branched covering of a (1,1)-knot admits a cyclic presentation for the fundamental group, arising from a Heegaard splitting of genus n.
Moreover, we give an algorithm to produce the cyclic presentation and illustrate it in the case of cyclic branched coverings of torus knots of type (k,hk+1) and (k,hk-1).
We propose a cyclic coefficient $R$ which represents the cyclic characteristics of complex networks.
If the network forms a perfect tree-like structure then $R$ becomes zero.
The larger value of $R$ represents that the network is more cyclic.
We measure the cyclic coefficients and the distributions of the local cyclic coefficient for both various real networks and the representative network models and characterize the cyclic structures of them.
While involutions on central simple algebras have been studied extensively and are well understood, much less is known about general anti-automorphisms.
We present norm criteria for the existence of anti-automorphisms as well as explicit constructions of anti-automorphisms, on cyclic and generalized cyclic algebras.
Our approach describes anti-automorphisms as polynomial maps and unifies existing approaches.
It recovers classical criteria for the existence of involutions as special cases.
We obtain norm conditions for the existence of anti-automorphisms of the second kind and of infinite order on the ring of twisted Laurent series $K((t;σ))$ over a field $K$ and the ring of twisted Laurent series $D((t;σ))$ over a division algebra $D$ that is finite-dimensional over its center.
Our construction produces all possible anti-automorphisms of proper nonassociative cyclic or generalized cyclic algebras, i.e. for special classes of Petit algebras which can be viewed as canonical generalizations of associative cyclic and generalized cyclic central simple algebras.
The ring of cyclic quasi-symmetric functions and its non-Escher subring are introduced in this paper.
A natural basis consists of fundamental cyclic quasi-symmetric functions; for the non-Escher subring they arise as toric $P$-partition enumerators, for toric posets $P$ with a total cyclic order.
The associated structure constants are determined by cyclic shuffles of permutations.
We then prove the following positivity phenomenon: for every non-hook shape $λ$, the coefficients in the expansion of the Schur function $s_λ$ in terms of fundamental cyclic quasi-symmetric functions are nonnegative.
The proof relies on the existence of a cyclic descent map on the standard Young tableaux (SYT) of shape $λ$.
The theory has applications to the enumeration of cyclic shuffles and SYT by cyclic descents.
We focus on two important classes of lattices, the well-rounded and the cyclic.
We show that every well-rounded lattice in the plane is similar to a cyclic lattice, and use this cyclic parameterization to count planar well-rounded similarity classes defined over a fixed number field with respect to height.
We then investigate cyclic properties of the irreducible root lattices in arbitrary dimensions, in particular classifying those that are simple cyclic, i.e. generated by rotation shifts of a single vector.
Finally, we classify cyclic, simple cyclic and well-rounded cyclic lattices coming from rings of integers of Galois algebraic number fields.
Cyclic lattices are sublattices of $\mathbb Z^N$ that are preserved under the rotational shift operator.
Cyclic lattices were introduced by D.~Micciancio and their properties were studied in the recent years by several authors due to their importance in cryptography.
In particular, Peikert and Rosen showed that on cyclic lattices in prime dimensions, the shortest independent vectors problem SIVP reduces to the shortest vector problem SVP with a particularly small loss in approximation factor, as compared to general lattices.
In this paper, we further investigate geometric properties of cyclic lattices.
Our main result is a counting estimate for the number of well-rounded cyclic lattices, indicating that well-rounded lattices are more common among cyclic lattices than generically.
We also show that SVP is equivalent to SIVP on a positive proportion of Minkowskian well-rounded cyclic lattices in every dimension.
As an example, we demonstrate an explicit construction of a family of such lattices on which this equivalence holds.
To conclude, we introduce a class of sublattices of $\mathbb Z^N$ closed under the action of subgroups of the permutation group $S_N$, which are a natural generalization of cyclic lattices, and show that our results extend to all such lattices closed under the action of any $N$-cycle.
The main local invariants of a (one variable) differential module over the complex numbers are given by means of a cyclic basis.
In the $p$-adic setting the existence of a cyclic vector is often unknown.
We investigate the existence of such a cyclic vector in a Banach algebra.
We follow the explicit method of Katz, and we prove the existence of such a cyclic vector under the assumption that the matrix of the derivation is small enough in norm.
This work is meant to demonstrate new class of prime numbers -- cyclic prime numbers, that can be derived from any prime number at certain numeric systems.
Cyclic prime numbers are also related to the cyclic numbers and full reptend prime numbers.
Cyclic prime numbers, derived from the same prime number, could be grouped.
Conditions and properties of those groups between different numeric systems are also the subjects of this paper.
We conjecture an explicit formula for a cyclic analog of the Formality $L_{\infty}$-morphism [K].
We prove that its first Taylor component, the cyclic Hochschild-Kostant-Rosenberg map, is in fact a morphism (and a quasiisomorphism) of the complexes.
To prove it we construct a cohomological version of the Connes-Tsygan bicomplex in cyclic homology.
As an application of the cyclic Formality conjecture, we obtain an explicit formula for cyclically invariant deformation quantization.We show that (a more precise version of) the Connes-Flato-Sternheimer conjecture [CFS] on the existence of closed star-products on a symplectic manifold also follows from our conjecture.
We discuss cyclic star-autonomous categories; that is, unbraided star- autonomous categories in which the left and right duals of every object p are linked by coherent natural isomorphism.
We settle coherence questions which have arisen concerning such cyclicity isomorphisms, and we show that such cyclic structures are the natural setting in which to consider enriched profunctors.
Specifically, if V is a cyclic star-autonomous category, then the collection of V-enriched profunctors carries a canonical cyclic structure.
In the case of braided star-autonomous categories, we discuss the correspondences between cyclic structures and balances or tortile structures.
Finally, we show that every cyclic star-autonomous category is equivalent to one in which the cyclicity isomorphisms are identities.
For module algebras and module coalgebras over an arbitrary bialgebra, we define two types of bivariant cyclic cohomology groups called bivariant Hopf cyclic cohomology and bivariant equivariant cyclic cohomology.
These groups are defined through an extension of Connes' cyclic category $Λ$.
We show that, in the case of module coalgebras, bivariant Hopf cyclic cohomology specializes to Hopf cyclic cohomology of Connes and Moscovici and its dual version by fixing either one of the variables as the ground field.
We also prove an appropriate version of Morita invariance for both of these theories.
Neural decoders were introduced as a generalization of the classic Belief Propagation (BP) decoding algorithms, where the Trellis graph in the BP algorithm is viewed as a neural network, and the weights in the Trellis graph are optimized by training the neural network.
In this work, we propose a novel neural decoder for cyclic codes by exploiting their cyclically invariant property.
More precisely, we impose a shift invariant structure on the weights of our neural decoder so that any cyclic shift of inputs results in the same cyclic shift of outputs.
Extensive simulations with BCH codes and punctured Reed-Muller (RM) codes show that our new decoder consistently outperforms previous neural decoders when decoding cyclic codes.
Finally, we propose a list decoding procedure that can significantly reduce the decoding error probability for BCH codes and punctured RM codes.
For certain high-rate codes, the gap between our list decoder and the Maximum Likelihood decoder is less than $0.1$dB.
A code is said to be equidistant if the distance between any two distinct codewords of the code is the same.
In this paper, we have studied equidistant single-orbit cyclic and quasi-cyclic subspace codes.
The orbit code generated by a subspace $U$ in $\mathbb{F}_{q^n}$ such that the dimension of $U$ over $\mathbb{F}_q$ is $t$ or $n-t$, $\mbox{where}~t=\dim_{\mathbb{F}_q}(\mbox{Stab}(U)\cup\{0\})$, is equidistant and is termed a trivial equidistant orbit code.
Using the concept of cyclic difference sets, we have proved that only the trivial equidistant single-orbit cyclic subspace codes exist.
Further, we have explored equidistant single-orbit quasi-cyclic subspace codes, focusing specifically on those which are sunflowers.
A notion of cyclic descents on standard Young tableaux (SYT) of rectangular shape was introduced by Rhoades, and extended to certain skew shapes by Adin, Elizalde and Roichman.
The cyclic descent set restricts to the usual descent set when the largest value is ignored, and has the property that the number of SYT of a given shape with a given cyclic descent set D is invariant under cyclic shifts of the entries of D.
Adin, Reiner and Roichman proved that a skew shape has a cyclic descent map if and only if it is not a connected ribbon.
Unfortunately, their proof is nonconstructive.
Recently Huang constructed an explicit cyclic descent map for all shapes where this is possible.
In the earlier version of Adin, Elizalde and Roichman's paper, they asked to find statistics on combinatorial objects which are equidistributed with cyclic descents on SYT of given shapes.
In this paper, we explicitly describe cyclic descent sets for Motzkin paths, which are equidistributed with cyclic descent sets of SYT for three-row shapes.
Moreover, in light of Stanley's shuffling theorem, we give a bijective proof of the shuffling property of descent statistics for Motzkin paths.
We show that using the cyclic group the transpose of an R-cyclic matrix can be decomposed along diagonal parts into a sum of parts which are freely independent over diagonal scalar matrices.
Moreover, if the R-cyclic matrix is self-adjoint then the off-diagonal parts are R-diagonal.
In this paper, we define and study \emph{quantum cyclic codes}, a generalisation of cyclic codes to the quantum setting.
Previously studied examples of quantum cyclic codes were all quantum codes obtained from classical cyclic codes via the CSS construction.
However, the codes that we study are much more general. In particular, we construct cyclic stabiliser codes with parameters $[[5,1,3]]$, $[[17,1,7]]$ and $[[17,9,3]]$, all of which are \emph{not} CSS.
The $[[5,1,3]]$ code is the well known Laflamme code and to the best of our knowledge the other two are new examples.
Our definition of cyclicity applies to non-stabiliser codes as well; in fact we show that the $((5,6,2))$ nonstabiliser first constructed by Rains\etal~ cite{rains97nonadditive} and latter by Arvind \etal~\cite{arvind:2004:nonstabilizer} is cyclic.
We also study stabiliser codes of length $4^m +1$ over $\mathbb{F}_2$ for which we define a notation of BCH distance.
Much like the Berlekamp decoding algorithm for classical BCH codes, we give efficient quantum algorithms to correct up to $\floor{\frac{d-1}{2}}$ errors when the BCH distance is $d$.
A new approach to bound the minimum distance of $q$-ary cyclic codes is presented.
The connection to the BCH and the Hartmann--Tzeng bound is formulated and it is shown that for several cases an improvement is achieved.
We associate a second cyclic code to the original one and bound its minimum distance in terms of parameters of the associated code.
Consider a permutation p to be any finite list of distinct positive integers.
A statistic is a function St whose domain is all permutations.
Let S(p,q) be the set of shuffles of two disjoint permutations p and q.
We say that St is shuffle compatible if the distribution of St over S(p,q) depends only on St(p), St(q), and the lengths of p and q.
This notion is implicit in Stanley's work on P-partitions and was first explicitly studied by Gessel and Zhuang.
One of the places where shuffles are useful is in describing the product in the algebra of quasisymmetric functions.
Recently Adin, Gessel, Reiner, and Roichman defined an algebra of cyclic quasisymmetric functions where a cyclic version of shuffling comes into play.
The purpose of this paper is to define and study cyclic shuffle compatibility.
In particular, we show how one can lift shuffle compatibility results for (linear) permutations to cyclic ones.
We then apply this result to cyclic descents and cyclic peaks.
We also discuss the problem of finding a cyclic analogue of the major index.
We provide a cyclic permutation analogue of the Erd\H os-Szekeres theorem.
In particular, we show that every cyclic permutation of length $(k-1)(\ell-1)+2$ has either an increasing cyclic sub-permutation of length $k+1$ or a decreasing cyclic sub-permutation of length $\ell+1$, and show that the result is tight.
We also characterize all maximum-length cyclic permutations that do not have an increasing cyclic sub-permutation of length $k+1$ or a decreasing cyclic sub-permutation of length $\ell+1$.
This paper considers cyclic DNA codes of arbitrary length over the ring $R=\F_2[u]/u^4-1$.
A mapping is given between the elements of $R$ and the alphabet $\{A,C,G,T\}$ which allows the additive stem distance to be extended to this ring.
Cyclic codes over $R$ are designed such that their images under the mapping are also cyclic or quasi-cyclic of index 2.
The additive distance and hybridization energy are functions of the neighborhood energy.
The Grassmannian admits an action by a finite cyclic group via the cyclic shift map.
We give a simple description of the points fixed by each element of this cyclic group, extending Karp's description of the points fixed by the cyclic shift itself.
We give a cell decomposition of the set of totally nonnegative points in each cyclic symmetry locus and describe efficient total positivity tests, extending results of Postnikov to the cyclically symmetric setting.
We describe a conjectural generalized cluster structure on cyclic symmetry loci provided the order of the orbifold point is sufficiently large.
The generalized exchange relations we find should be a Higher Teichmüller analogue of the relations Chekhov and Shapiro used to study Teichmüller theory of orbifolds.
We define the cyclic matching sequencibility of a graph to be the largest integer $d$ such that there exists a cyclic ordering of its edges so that every $d$ consecutive edges in the cyclic ordering form a matching.
We show that the cyclic matching sequencibility of $K_{2m}$ and $K_{2m+1}$ equal $m-1$.
In network coding a constant dimension code consists of a set of k-dimensional subspaces of F_q^n.
Orbit codes are constant dimension codes which are defined as orbits of a subgroup of the general linear group, acting on the set of all subspaces of F_q^n.
If the acting group is cyclic, the corresponding orbit codes are called cyclic orbit codes.
In this paper we give a classification of cyclic orbit codes and propose a decoding procedure for a particular subclass of cyclic orbit codes.
Combinatorial formulas expressing cyclic rook polynomials and cyclic permanents of rectangular matrices in terms of expansions along rows are presented
We give the class of finite groups which arise as the permutation groups of cyclic codes over finite fields.
Furthermore, we extend the results of Brand and Huffman et al. and we find the properties of the set of permutations by which two cyclic codes of length p^r can be equivalent.
We also find the set of permutations by which two quasi-cyclic codes can be equivalent.
In this paper we initiate the study of cyclic algebraic geometry codes.
We give conditions to construct cyclic algebraic geometry codes in the context of algebraic function fields over a finite field by using their group of automorphisms.
We prove that cyclic algebraic geometry codes constructed in this way are closely related to cyclic extensions.
We also give a detailed study of the monomial equivalence of cyclic algebraic geometry codes constructed with our method in the case of a rational function field.
This work investigates the combinatorial structures underlying cyclic conditional freeness and introduces cumulants that serve to linearize the cyclic conditional additive convolution.
In the process, we establish the notion of "cyclic freeness", demonstrating its equivalence to infinitesimal freeness in the presence of tracial states.
Furthermore, we show that cyclic conditional freeness can be reduced to cyclic freeness through a multivariate extension of the inverse Markov-Krein transform.
Our first goal in this work is to study general and model-independent properties of cyclic cosmologies.
The large number of studies of bouncing cosmologies and different cyclic scenarios published recently calls for a proper understanding of the universal properties of cyclic models.
We thus first review and further elaborate the common physical and geometrical properties of various classes of cyclic models and then discuss how cyclic Universe can be treated as a dynamic system.
We then discuss how two theorems from dynamic systems analysis can be used to ensure the existence of cyclic cosmological solutions under certain conditions on the field equations.
After this we proceed towards our second goal which is the application of the obtained results to different frameworks of modified gravity theories: $f(R)$ gravity, dynamic dark energy and $f(T)$ gravity.
We discuss the general requirements for the existence of cyclic solutions in these theories and also obtain various examples of cyclic cosmologies, while discussing their basic properties.
This paper continues the investigation of Esslamzadeh and the first author which was begun in [7].
It is shown that homomorphic image of an approximately cyclic amenable Banach algebra is again approximately cyclic amenable.
Equivalence of approximate cyclic amenability of a Banach algebra $\mathcal{A}$ and approximate cyclic amenability of $M_{n}(\mathcal{A})$ is proved.
It is shown that under certain conditions the approximate cyclic amenability of second dual $\mathcal{A}^{**}$ implies the approximate cyclic amenability of $\mathcal{A}$.
A flat of a matroid is cyclic if it is a union of circuits.
The cyclic flats of a matroid form a lattice under inclusion.
We study these lattices and explore matroids from the perspective of cyclic flats.
In particular, we show that every lattice is isomorphic to the lattice of cyclic flats of a matroid.
We give a necessary and sufficient condition for a lattice Z of sets and a function r on Z to be the lattice of cyclic flats of a matroid and the restriction of the corresponding rank function to Z.
We define cyclic width and show that this concept gives rise to minor-closed, dual-closed classes of matroids, two of which contain only transversal matroids.
A natural isomorphism between the cyclic object computing the relative cyclic homology of a homogeneous quotient-coalgebra-Galois extension, and the cyclic object computing the cyclic homology of a Galois coalgebra with SAYD coefficients is presented.
The isomorphism can be viewed as the cyclic-homological counterpart of the Takeuchi-Galois correspondence between the left coideal subalgebras and the quotient right module coalgebras of a Hopf algebra.
A spectral sequence generalizing the classical computation of Hochschild homology of a Hopf algebra to the case of arbitrary homogeneous quotient-coalgebra-Galois extensions is constructed.
A Pontryagin type self-duality of the Takeuchi-Galois correspondence is combined with the cyclic duality of Connes in order to obtain dual results on the invariant cyclic homology, with SAYD coefficients, of algebras of invariants in homogeneous quotient-coalgebra-Galois extensions.
The relation of this dual result with the Chern character, Frobenius reciprocity, and inertia phenomena in the local Langlands program, the Chen-Ruan-Brylinski-Nistor orbifold cohomology and the Clifford theory is discussed.
In this paper, we generalize the notion of cyclic metric to homogeneous Finsler geometry.
Firstly, we prove that a homogeneous Finsler space $(G/H, F)$ must be symmetric when it satisfies the naturally reductive and cyclic conditions simultaneously.
Then we prove that a Finsler cyclic Lie group which is either flat or nilpotent must have an Abelian Lie algebra.
Finally, we show how to induce a cyclic $(α,β)$ metric from a cyclic Riemannian metric.
Using this method, we construct a Randers cyclic Lie group.
In this paper, we study quandles of cyclic type, which form a particular subclass of finite quandles.
The main result of this paper describes the set of isomorphism classes of quandles of cyclic type in terms of certain cyclic permutations.
By using our description, we give a direct classification of quandles of cyclic type with cardinality up to $12$.
In network coding, a flag code is a set of sequences of nested subspaces of $\mathbb{F}_q^n$, being $\mathbb{F}_q$ the finite field with $q$ elements.
Flag codes defined as orbits of a cyclic subgroup of the general linear group acting on flags of $\mathbb{F}_q^n$ are called cyclic orbit flag codes.
Inspired by the ideas in arXiv:1403.1218, we determine the cardinality of a cyclic orbit flag code and provide bounds for its distance with the help of the largest subfield over which all the subspaces of a flag are vector spaces (the best friend of the flag).
Special attention is paid to two specific families of cyclic orbit flag codes attaining the extreme possible values of the distance: Galois cyclic orbit flag codes and optimum distance cyclic orbit flag codes.
We study in detail both classes of codes and analyze the parameters of the respective subcodes that still have a cyclic orbital structure.
Thermodynamic cycles are idealized processes that can convert heat into work or produce heat flow against a temperature gradient with the input of work.
They remain an active area of research in modern stochastic thermodynamics.
In particular, cyclic active heat engines have been shown to display a rich phenomenology, such as ``violations'' of the Carnot bound on efficiency and an improved performance in comparison to their passive counterparts.
We introduce the concept of cyclic active refrigerators using a previously derived second law for cyclic active systems.
We show that for cyclic active refrigerators, a naive definition of the coefficient of performance can exceed the bound set by the standard second law for passive refrigerators.
We also show that cyclic active systems can behave like a Maxwell's demon, with heat flowing from the cold to the hot reservoir without any work input.
Beyond this phase, cyclic active systems can enter a hybrid phase, functioning as both a heat engine and a refrigerator simultaneously.
Our results are obtained with two models that involve active Brownian particles, a simpler one that allows for analytical results and a more realistic one that is analyzed through numerical simulations.
A positive integer $n$ is defined to be cyclic if and only if every group of size $n$ is cyclic.
Equivalently, $n$ is cyclic if and only if $n$ is relatively prime to the number of positive integers less than $n$ that are relatively prime to $n$.
Because every prime number is cyclic, it is natural to ask whether a (proved or conjectured) property of primes extends to cyclic numbers.
I review proved or conjectured properties of primes (including some new conjectures about primes) and propose analogous conjectures about cyclic numbers.
Using the 28,488,167 cyclic numbers less than $10^8$, I test the conjectures about cyclic numbers and disprove the cyclic analog of the second conjecture about primes of Hardy and Littlewood.
Proofs or disproofs of the remaining conjectures are invited.
Following the idea of an invariant differential complex, we construct general-type cyclic modules that provide the common denominator of known cyclic theories.
The cyclicity of these modules is governed by Hopf-algebraic structures.
We prove that the existence of a cyclic operator forces a modification of the Yetter-Drinfeld compatibility condition leading to the concept of a stable anti-Yetter-Drinfeld module.
This module plays the role of the space of coefficients in the thus obtained cyclic cohomology of module algebras and coalgebras, and the cyclic homology and cohomology of comodule algebras.
Along the lines of Connes and Moscovici, we show that there is a pairing between the cyclic cohomology of a module coalgebra acting on a module algebra and closed 0-cocycles on the latter.
The pairing takes values in the usual cyclic cohomology of the algebra.
Similarly, we argue that there is an analogous pairing between closed 0-cocycles of a module coalgebra and the cyclic cohomology of a module algebra.
A cyclic proof system allows us to perform inductive reasoning without explicit inductions.
We propose a cyclic proof system for HFLN, which is a higher-order predicate logic with natural numbers and alternating fixed-points.
Ours is the first cyclic proof system for a higher-order logic, to our knowledge.
Due to the presence of higher-order predicates and alternating fixed-points, our cyclic proof system requires a more delicate global condition on cyclic proofs than the original system of Brotherston and Simpson.
We prove the decidability of checking the global condition and soundness of this system, and also prove a restricted form of standard completeness for an infinitary variant of our cyclic proof system.
A potential application of our cyclic proof system is semi-automated verification of higher-order programs, based on Kobayashi et al.'s recent work on reductions from program verification to HFLN validity checking.
A cyclic presentation of a group is a presentation with an equal number of generators and relators that admits a particular cyclic symmetry.
We characterise the orientable, non-orientable, and redundant cyclic presentations and obtain concise refinements of these presentations.
We show that the Tits alternative holds for the class of groups defined by redundant cyclic presentations and that if the number of generators of the cyclic presentation is greater than two then the corresponding group is large.
Generalizing and extending earlier results of the authors we describe the star graphs of orientable and non-orientable cyclic presentations and classify the cyclic presentations whose star graph components are pairwise isomorphic incidence graphs of generalized polygons, thus classifying the so-called $(m,k,ν)$-special cyclic presentations.
This survey of topological cyclic homology is a chapter in the Handbook on Homotopy Theory.
We give a brief introduction to topological cyclic homology and the cyclotomic trace map following Nikolaus-Scholze, followed by a proof of Bökstedt periodicity that closely resembles Bökstedt's original unpublished proof.
We explain the extension of Bökstedt periodicity by Bhatt-Morrow-Scholze from perfect fields to perfectoid rings and use this to give a purely p-adic proof of Bott periodicity.
Finally, we evaluate the cofiber of the assembly map in p-adic topological cyclic homology for the cyclic group of order p and a perfectoid ring of coefficients.
We give a systematic description of the cyclic cohomology theory of Hopf algebroids in terms of its associated category of modules.
Then we introduce a dual cyclic homology theory by applying cyclic duality to the underlying cocyclic object.
We derive general structure theorems for these theories in the special cases of commutative and cocommutative Hopf algebroids.
Finally, we compute the cyclic theory in examples associated to Lie-Rinehart algebras and étale groupoids.
We enrich the Lambek calculus with the cyclic shift operation, which is expected to model the closure operator of formal languages with respect to cyclic shifts.
We introduce a Gentzen-style calculus and prove cut elimination.
Secondly, we turn to categorial grammars based on this calculus and show that they can generate non-context-free languages; besides, we consider a related calculus where the cyclic shift is a structural rule, and compare recognizing power of these two calculi.
Thirdly, we attempt to embed the Lambek calculus with the cyclic shift operation in the hypergraph Lambek calculus.
This results in considering a ``bracelet'' operation, which can be defined through the cyclic shift, union, and the reversal operation.
In spin geometry, traceless cyclic homogeneous Riemannian manifolds equipped with a homogeneous spin structure can be viewed as the simplest manifolds after Riemannian symmetric spin spaces.
In this paper, we give some characterizations and properties of cyclic and traceless cyclic homogeneous Riemannian manifolds and we obtain the classification of simply-connected cyclic homogeneous Riemannian manifolds of dimension less than or equal to four.
We also present a wide list of examples of non-compact irreducible Riemannian $3$-symmetric spaces admitting cyclic metrics and give the expression of these metrics.
We show that Connes' B-operator on a cyclic differential graded k-module M is a model for the canonical circle action on the geometric realization of M.
This implies that the negative cyclic homology and the periodic cyclic homology of a differential graded category can be identified with the homotopy fixed points and the Tate fixed points of the circle action on its Hochschild complex.
We define a Hopf cyclic (co)homology theory in an arbitrary symmetric strict monoidal category.
Thus we unify all different types of Hopf cyclic (co)homologies under one single universal theory.
We recover Hopf cyclic (co)homology of module algebras, comodule algebras and module coalgebras along with Hopf-Hochschild (co)homology of module algebras.
This universal theory also allows us to define the missing Hopf cyclic theory for comodule coalgebras.
A cyclic cohomology theory adapted to Hopf algebras has been introduced recently by Connes and Moscovici.
In this paper, we consider this object in the homological framework, in the spirit of Loday-Quillen and Karoubi's work on the cyclic homology of associative algebras.
In the case of group algebras, we interpret the decomposition of the classical cyclic homology of a group algebra in terms of this homology.
We also compute both cyclic homologies for truncated quiver algebras.
The models of cyclic universes and cyclic multiverses based on the alternative gravity theories of varying constants are considered.
We define a noncommutative analogue of invariant de Rham cohomology.
More precisely, for a triple $(A,\mathcal{H},M)$ consisting of a Hopf algebra $\mathcal{H}$, an $\mathcal{H}$-comodule algebra $A$, an $\mathcal{H}$-module $M$, and a compatible grouplike element $σ$ in $\mathcal{H}$, we define the cyclic module of invariant chains on $A$ with coefficients in $M$ and call its cyclic homology the invariant cyclic homology of $A$ with coefficients in $M$.
We also develop a dual theory for coalgebras.
Examples include cyclic cohomology of Hopf algebras defined by Connes-Moscovici and its dual theory.
We establish various results and computations including one for the quantum group $SL(q,2)$.
This paper is concerned with construction and structural analysis of both cyclic and quasi-cyclic codes, particularly LDPC codes.
It consists of three parts.
The first part shows that a cyclic code given by a parity-check matrix in circulant form can be decomposed into descendant cyclic and quasi-cyclic codes of various lengths and rates.
Some fundamental structural properties of these descendant codes are developed, including the characterizations of the roots of the generator polynomial of a cyclic descendant code.
The second part of the paper shows that cyclic and quasi-cyclic descendant LDPC codes can be derived from cyclic finite geometry LDPC codes using the results developed in first part of the paper.
This enlarges the repertoire of cyclic LDPC codes.
The third part of the paper analyzes the trapping sets of regular LDPC codes whose parity-check matrices satisfy a certain constraint on their rows and columns.
Several classes of finite geometry and finite field cyclic and quasi-cyclic LDPC codes with large minimum weights are shown to have no harmful trapping sets with size smaller than their minimum weights.
Consequently, their performance error-floors are dominated by their minimum weights.
Decentralized Exchanges (DEXes) enable users to create markets for exchanging any pair of cryptocurrencies.
The direct exchange rate of two tokens may not match the cross-exchange rate in the market, and such price discrepancies open up arbitrage possibilities with trading through different cryptocurrencies cyclically.
In this paper, we conduct a systematic investigation on cyclic arbitrages in DEXes.
We propose a theoretical framework for studying cyclic arbitrage.
With our framework, we analyze the profitability conditions and optimal trading strategies of cyclic transactions.
We further examine exploitable arbitrage opportunities and the market size of cyclic arbitrages with transaction-level data of Uniswap V2.
We find that traders have executed 292,606 cyclic arbitrages over eleven months and exploited more than 138 million USD in revenue.
However, the revenue of the most profitable unexploited opportunity is persistently higher than 1 ETH (4,000 USD), which indicates that DEX markets may not be efficient enough.
By analyzing how traders implement cyclic arbitrages, we find that traders can utilize smart contracts to issue atomic transactions and the atomic implementations could mitigate users' financial loss in cyclic arbitrage from the price impact.
A cyclic base ordering of a connected graph $G$, is a cyclic ordering of $E(G)$ such that every cyclically consecutive $|V(G)|-1$ edges form a spanning tree.
In this project, we study cyclic base ordering of various families of graphs, including square of cycles, wheel graphs, generalized wheel graphs and broken wheel graphs, fan and broken fan graphs, prism graphs, and maximal 2-degenerate graphs.
We also provide a polynomial time algorithm to verify any giving edge ordering is a cyclic base ordering.
Two generalizations of the Hartmann--Tzeng (HT) bound on the minimum distance of q-ary cyclic codes are proposed.
The first one is proven by embedding the given cyclic code into a cyclic product code.
Furthermore, we show that unique decoding up to this bound is always possible and outline a quadratic-time syndrome-based error decoding algorithm.
The second bound is stronger and the proof is more involved.
Our technique of embedding the code into a cyclic product code can be applied to other bounds, too and therefore generalizes them.
We prove a general result concerning cyclic orderings of the elements of a matroid.
For each matroid $M$, weight function $ω:E(M)\rightarrow\mathbb{N}$, and positive integer $D$, the following are equivalent.
(1) For all $A\subseteq E(M)$, we have $\sum_{a\in A}ω(a)\le D\cdot r(A)$.
(2) There is a map $φ$ that assigns to each element $e$ of $E(M)$ a set $φ(e)$ of $ω(e)$ cyclically consecutive elements in the cycle $(1,2,...,D)$ so that each set $\{e|i\inφ(e)\}$, for $i=1,...,D$, is independent.
As a first corollary we obtain the following.
For each matroid $M$ so that $|E(M)|$ and $r(M)$ are coprime, the following are equivalent.
(1) For all non-empty $A\subseteq E(M)$, we have $|A|/r(A)\le|E(M)|/r(M)$.
(2) There is a cyclic permutation of $E(M)$ in which all sets of $r(M)$ cyclically consecutive elements are bases of $M$.
A second corollary is that the circular arboricity of a matroid is equal to its fractional arboricity.
These results generalise classical results of Edmonds, Nash-Williams and Tutte on covering and packing matroids by bases and graphs by spanning trees.
The circumcircle of a planar convex polygon P is a circle C that passes through all vertices of P.
If such a C exists, then P is said to be cyclic.
Fix C to have unit radius.
While any two angles of a uniform cyclic triangle are negatively correlated, any two sides are independent.
In contrast, for a uniform cyclic quadrilateral, any two sides are negatively correlated, whereas any two adjacent angles are uncorrelated yet dependent.
The cyclic sieving phenomenon (CSP) was introduced by Reiner, Stanton, and White to study combinatorial structures with actions of cyclic groups.
The crucial step is to find a polynomial, for example a q-analog, that satisfies the CSP conditions for an action.
This polynomial will give us a lot of information about the symmetry and structure of the set under the action.
In this paper, we study the cyclic sieving phenomenon of the cyclic group $C_{2n}$ acting on $P_{n,k}$, which is the set of matchings of $2n$ points on a circle with $k$ crossings.
The noncrossing matchings ($k=0$) was recently studied as a Catalan object.
In this paper, we study more general cases, the matchings with more number of crossings.
We prove that there exists $q$-analog polynomials $f_{n,k}(q)$ such that $(P_{n,k},f_{n,k},C_{2n})$ exhibits the cyclic sieving phenomenon for $k=1,2,3$.
In the proof, we also introduce an efficient representation of the elements in $P_{n,k}$, which helps us to understand the symmetrical structure of the set.
The cyclic graph of a group $G$ is the graph whose vertices are the nonidentity elements of $G$ and whose edges connect distinct elements $x$ and $y$ if and only if the subgroup $\langle x,y\rangle$ is cyclic.
We obtain information about the cyclic graph of $2$-Frobenius groups.
The cyclic graph of a $2$-Frobenius group is disconnected.
In this paper, we determine the number of connected components of the cyclic graph of any $2$-Frobenius group.
Following an old suggestion of M.
Kontsevich, and inspired by recent work of A.
Bhatt, we introduce a new version of periodic cyclic homology for DG agebras and DG categories.
We call it co-periodic cyclic homology.
It is always torsion, so that it vanishes in char 0.
However, we show that co-periodic cyclic homology is derived-Morita invariant, and that it coincides with the usual periodic cyclic homology for smooth cohomologically bounded DG algebras over a torsion ring.
For DG categories over a field of odd positive characteristic, we also establish a non-commutative generalization of the conjugate spectral sequence converging to our co-periodic cyclic homology groups.
We determine the points of the epicyclic topos which plays a key role in the geometric encoding of cyclic homology and the lambda operations.
We show that the category of points of the epicyclic topos is equivalent to projective geometry in characteristic one over algebraic extensions of the infinite semifield of max-plus integers.
An object of this category is a pair of an algebraic extension of the semifield and an archimedean semimodule over this extension.
The morphisms are projective classes of semilinear maps between semimodules.
The epicyclic topos sits over the arithmetic topos which we recently introduced and the fibers of the associated geometric morphism correspond to the cyclic site.
In two appendices we review the role of the cyclic and epicyclic toposes as the geometric structures supporting cyclic homology and the lambda operations.
For all positive integers $s$ and $t$ exceeding one, a matroid $M$ on $n$ elements is {\em nearly $(s, t)$-cyclic} if there is a cyclic ordering $σ$ of its ground set such that every $s-1$ consecutive elements of $σ$ are contained in an $s$-element circuit and every $t-1$ consecutive elements of $σ$ are contained in a $t$-element cocircuit.
In the case $s=t$, nearly $(s, s)$-cyclic matroids have been studied previously.
In this paper, we show that if $M$ is nearly $(s, t)$-cyclic and $n$ is sufficiently large, then these $s$-element circuits and $t$-element cocircuits are consecutive in $σ$ in a prescribed way, that is, $M$ is "$(s, t)$-cyclic".
Furthermore, we show that, given $s$ and $t$ where $t\ge s$, every $(s, t)$-cyclic matroid on $n > s+t-2$ elements is a weak-map image of the $\left(\frac{t-s}{2}\right)$-th truncation of a certain $(s, s)$-cyclic matroid.
If $s=3$, this certain matroid is the rank-$\frac{n}{2}$ whirl, and if $s=4$, this certain matroid is the rank-$\frac{n}{2}$ free swirl.
Simple necessary and sufficient conditions for a $n$-tuple of noncommutative polynomials to be a cyclic gradient are given and similarly for a noncommutative polynomial to have a vanishing cyclic gradient.
Connections with free probability are explained.
The aim of this paper is to provide a unifying categorical framework for the many examples of para-(co)cyclic modules arising from Hopf cyclic theory.
Functoriality of the coefficients is immediate in this approach.
A functor corresponding to Connes's cyclic duality is constructed.
Our methods allow, in particular, to extend Hopf cyclic theory to (Hopf) bialgebroids.
We discuss the cyclic homology of crossed product algebras from the Cuntz-Quillen point of view.
The periodic cyclic homology of a crossed product algebra $A\rtimes G$ is described in terms of the $G$-action on periodic cyclic bicomplexes of crossed products of $A$ by the cyclic subgroups of $G$ .
Sum-rank codes have known applications in the multishot network coding, the distributed storage and the construction of space-time codes.
Martínez-Peñas introduced the cyclic-skew-cyclic sum-rank codes and proposed the BCH bound on the cyclic-skew-cyclic sum-rank codes in his paper published in IEEE Trans.
Theory, vol. 67, no. 8, 2021.
Afterwards, many sum-rank BCH codes with lower bounds on their dimensions and minimum sum-rank distances were constructed.
Sum-rank Hartmann-Tzeng bound and sum-rank Roos bound on cyclic-skew-cyclic codes were proposed and proved by G.
In this paper, cyclic, negacyclic and constacyclic sum-rank codes are introduced and a direct construction of cyclic, negacyclic and constacyclic sum-rank codes of the matrix size $m \times m$ from cyclic, negacyclic and constacyclic codes over ${\bf F}_{q^m}$ in the Hamming metric is proposed.
The cyclic-skew-cylic sum-rank codes are special cyclic sum-rank codes.
In addition, BCH and Hartmann-Tzeng bounds for a type of cyclic sum-rank codes are developed.
Specific constructions of cyclic, negacyclic and constacyclic sum-rank codes with known dimensions and controllable minimum sum-rank distances are proposed.
Moreover, many distance-optimal binary sum-rank codes and an infinite family of distance-optimal binary cyclic sum-rank codes with minimum sum-rank distance four are constructed.
This is the first infinite family of distance-optimal sum-rank codes with minimum sum-rank distance four in the literature.
A positroid variety is an intersection of cyclically rotated Grassmannian Schubert varieties.
Each graded piece of the homogeneous coordinate ring of a positroid variety is the intersection of cyclically rotated (rectangular) Demazure modules, which we call the cyclic Demazure module.
In this note, we show that the cyclic Demazure module has a canonical basis, and define the cyclic Demazure crystal.
In this paper, first steps are taken towards characterising lattices of cyclic flats $\mathcal{Z}(M)$ that belong to matroids $M$ that can be represented over a prescribed finite field $\mathbb{F}_q$.
Two natural maps from $\mathcal{Z}(M)$ to the lattice of cyclic flats of a minor of $M$ are given.
Binary matroids are characterised via their lattice of cyclic flats.
It is shown that the lattice of cyclic flats of a simple binary matroid without isthmuses is atomic.
A classic problem in enumerative combinatorics is to count the number of derangements, that is, permutations with no fixed point.
Inspired by a recent generalization to facet derangements of the hypercube by Gordon and McMahon, we generalize this problem to enumerating derangements in the wreath product of any finite cyclic group with the symmetric group.
We also give q- and (q, t)-analogs for cyclic derangements, generalizing results of Brenti and Gessel.
Cyclic codes are a subclass of linear codes and have applications in consumer electronics, data storage systems, and communication systems as they have efficient encoding and decoding algorithms.
In this paper, a class of three-weight cyclic codes over $\gf(p)$ whose duals have two zeros is presented, where $p$ is an odd prime.
The weight distribution of this class of cyclic codes is settled.
Some of the cyclic codes are optimal. The duals of a subclass of the cyclic codes are also studied and proved to be optimal.
We give a historical perspective on the role of the cyclic category in the development of cyclic theory.
This involves a continuous interplay between the extension in characteristic one and in S-algebras, of the traditional development of cyclic theory, and the geometry of the toposes associated with several small categories involved.
We clarify the link between various existing presentations of the cyclic and the epicyclic categories and we exemplify the role of the absolute coefficients by presenting the ring of the integers as polynomials in powers of 3, with coefficients in the spherical group ring S[C_2] of the cyclic group of order two.
Finally, we introduce the pericyclic category which unifies and refines two conflicting notions of epicyclic space existing in the literature.
In this paper, we study Cyclic Henkin Logic CHL, a logic that can be described as provability logic without the third Löb condition, to wit, that provable implies provably provable (aka principle 4).
The logic CHL does have full modalised fixed points.
We implement these fixed points using cyclic syntax, so that we can work just with the usual repertoire of connectives.
The main part of the paper is devoted to developing the logic on cyclic syntax.
Many theorems, like the multiple fixed point theorem, become matter of course in this context.
We submit that the use of cyclic syntax is of interest even for the study of classical Löb's Logic.
We show that a version of the de Jongh-Sambin algorithm can be seen as one half of a synonymy between the theory GL^\circ, i.e.\ CHL plus the third Löb Condition, and ordinary Löb's Logic GL.
Our development illustrates that an appropriate computation scheme for the algorithm is guard recursion.
We show how arithmetical interpretations work for the cyclic syntax.
In an appendix, we give some further information about the arithmetical side of the equation.
We give an explicit formula for symplectically basic representatives of the cyclic cohomology of the Weyl algebra.
This paper can be seen as cyclic addendum to the paper by Feigin, Felder and Shoikhet, where the analogous Hochschild case was treated.
As an application, we prove a generalization of a Theorem of Nest and Tsygan concerning the relation of the Todd class and the cyclic cohomology of the differential operators on a complex manifold.
A cyclic descent function on standard Young tableaux of size $n$ is a function that restricts to the usual descent function when $n$ is omitted, such that the number of standard Young tableaux of given shape with cyclic descent set $D\subset[n]$ is invariant under any modulo $n$ shift of $D$.
The notion of cyclic descent was first studied for rectangles by Rhoades, and then generalized to certain families of skew shapes by Adin, Elizalde, and Roichman.
Adin, Reiner, and Roichman proved that a skew shape has a cyclic descent map if and only if it is not a connected ribbon.
Unfortunately, their proof is nonconstructive; until now, explicit cyclic descent maps are known only for small families of shapes.
In this paper, we construct an explicit cyclic descent map for all shapes where this is possible.
We thus provide a constructive proof of Adin, Reiner, and Roichman's result.
Our construction of a cyclic descent map generalizes many of the constructions in the literature.
The problem of identifying whether the family of cyclic codes is asymptotically good or not is a long-standing open problem in the field of coding theory.
It is known in the literature that some families of cyclic codes such as BCH codes and Reed-Solomon codes are asymptotically bad, however in general the answer to this question is not known.
A recent result by Nelson and Van Zwam shows that, all linear codes can be obtained by a sequence of puncturing and/or shortening of a collection of asymptotically good codes~\cite{Nelson_2015}.
In this paper, we prove that any linear code can be obtained by a sequence of puncturing and/or shortening of some cyclic code.
Therefore the result that all codes can be obtained by shortening and/or puncturing cyclic codes leaves the possibility open that cyclic codes are asymptotically good.
It is known that cyclic configurations of a planar polygonal linkage are critical points of the signed area function.
In the paper, we announce an explicit formula of the Morse index for the signed area of a cyclic configuration.
It depends not only on the combinatorics of a cyclic configuration, but also includes some metric characterization.
We define and study equivariant periodic cyclic homology for locally compact groups.
This can be viewed as a noncommutative generalization of equivariant de Rham cohomology.
Although the construction resembles the Cuntz-Quillen approach to ordinary cyclic homology, a completely new feature in the equivariant setting is the fact that the basic ingredient in the theory is not a complex in the usual sense.
As a consequence, in the equivariant context only the periodic cyclic theory can be defined in complete generality.
Our definition recovers particular cases studied previously by various authors.
We prove that bivariant equivariant periodic cyclic homology is homotopy invariant, stable and satisfies excision in both variables.
Moreover we construct the exterior product which generalizes the obvious composition product.
Finally we prove a Green-Julg theorem in cyclic homology for compact groups and the dual result for discrete groups.
This paper is an introduction to Hopf cyclic cohomology with an emphasis on its most recent developments.
We cover three major areas: the original definition of Hopf cyclic cohomology by Connes and Moscovici as an outgrowth of their study of transverse index theory on foliated manifolds, the introduction of Hopf cyclic cohomology with coefficients by Hajac-Khalkhali-Rangipour-Sommerhauser, and finally the latest episode on unifying the coefficients as well as extending the notion to more general settings beyond Hopf algebras.
In particular, the last section discusses the relative Hopf cyclic theory that arises in the braided monoidal category settings.
In this paper we study the cyclic cohomology of certain x-Hopf algebras: universal enveloping algebras, quantum algebraic tori, the Connes-Moscovici x-Hopf algebroids and the Kadison bialgebroids.
Introducing their stable anti Yetter-Drinfeld modules and cocyclic modules, we compute their cyclic cohomology.
Furthermore, we provide a pairing for the cyclic cohomology of x-Hopf algebras which generalizes the Connes-Moscovici characteristic map to x-Hopf algebras.
This enables us to transfer the x-Hopf algebra cyclic cocycles to algebra cyclic cocycles.
In this work, we present and analyze C-SAGA, a (deterministic) cyclic variant of SAGA.
C-SAGA is an incremental gradient method that minimizes a sum of differentiable convex functions by cyclically accessing their gradients.
Even though the theory of stochastic algorithms is more mature than that of cyclic counterparts in general, practitioners often prefer cyclic algorithms.
We prove C-SAGA converges linearly under the standard assumptions.
Then, we compare the rate of convergence with the full gradient method, (stochastic) SAGA, and incremental aggregated gradient (IAG), theoretically and experimentally.
The Garsia--Haiman module is a bigraded $\mathfrak{S}_n$-module whose Frobenius image is a Macdonald polynomial. The method of orbit harmonics promotes an $\mathfrak{S}_n$-set $X$ to a graded polynomial ring.
The orbit harmonics can be applied to prove cyclic sieving phenomena which is a notion that encapsulates the fixed-point structure of finite cyclic group action on a finite set.
By applying this idea to the Garsia--Haiman module, we provide cyclic sieving results regarding the enumeration of matrices that are invariant under certain cyclic row and column rotation and translation of entries.
This report studies the emergent behavior of systems of agents performing cyclic pursuit controlled by an external broadcast signal detected by a random set of the agents.
Two types of cyclic pursuit are analyzed: 1)linear cyclic pursuit, where each agent senses the relative position of its target or leading agent 2)non-linear cyclic pursuit, where the agents can sense only bearing to their leading agent and colliding agents merge and continue on the path of the pursued agent (a so-called "bugs" model).
Cyclic pursuit is, in both cases, a gathering algorithm, which has been previously analyzed.
The novelty of our work is the derivation of emergent behaviours, in both linear and non-linear cyclic pursuit, in the presence of an exogenous broadcast control detected by a random subset of agents.
We show that the emergent behavior of the swarm depends on the type of cyclic pursuit.
In the linear case, the agents asymptotically align in the desired direction and move with a common speed which is a proportional to the ratio of the number of agents detecting the broadcast control to the total number of agents in the swarm, for any magnitude of input (velocity) signal. In the non-linear case, the agents gather and move with a shared velocity, which equals the input velocity signal, independently of the number of agents detecting the broadcast signal.
In this note we prove that the constant and equivariant cyclic cohomology of algebras coincide.
This shows that constant cyclic cohomology is rich and computable.
A matroid is a combinatorial structure that captures and generalizes the algebraic concept of linear independence under a broader and more abstract framework.
Matroids are closely related with many other topics in discrete mathematics, such as graphs, matrices, codes and projective geometries.
In this work, we define cyclic matroids as matroids over a ground set of size $n$ whose automorphism group contains an $n$-cycle.
We study the properties of such matroids, with special focus on the minimum size of their basis sets.
For this, we broadly employ two different approaches: the multiple basis exchange property, and an orbit-stabilizer method, developed by analyzing the action of the cyclic group of order $n$ on the set of bases.
We further present some applications of our theory to algebra and geometry, presenting connections to cyclic projective planes, cyclic codes and $k$-normal elements.
We present a family of reducible cyclic codes constructed as the direct sum of two different semiprimitive two-weight irreducible cyclic codes.
This family generalizes the class of reducible cyclic codes that was reported in the main result of B.
Wang, {\em et al.} \cite{once}.
Moreover, despite of what was stated therein, we show that, at least for the codes studied here, it is still possible to compute the frequencies of their weight distributions through the cyclotomic numbers in a very easy way.
The mechanical properties of $β$-Sn single crystals have been systematically investigated using a combined methodology of micropillar tests and rate-dependent crystal plasticity modelling.
The slip strength and rate sensitivity of several key slip systems within $β$-Sn single crystals have been determined.
Consistency between the numerically predicted and experimentally observed slip traces has been shown for pillars oriented to activate single and double slip.
Subsequently, the temperature-dependent, intermetallic-size-governing behaviour of a polycrystal $β$-Sn-rich alloy SAC305 (96.5Sn-3Ag-0.5Cu wt%) is predicted through a multi-scale homogenization approach, and the predicted temperature- and rate-sensitivity reproduce independent experimental results.
The integrated experimental and numerical approaches provide mechanistic understanding and fundamental material properties of microstructure-sensitive behaviour of electronic solders subject to thermomechanical loading, including thermal fatigue.
General isometries of cyclic codes, including multipliers and translations, are introduced; and isometrically self-dual cyclic codes are defined.
In terms of Type-I duadic splittings given by multipliers and translations, a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of isometrically self-dual cyclic codes is obtained.
A program to construct isometrically self-dual cyclic codes is provided, and illustrated by several examples.
In particular, a class of isometrically self-dual MDS cyclic codes, which are alternant codes from a class of generalized Reed-Solomon codes, is presented.
The Hochschild and (cotriple) cyclic homologies of crossed modules of (not-necessarily-unital) associative algebras are investigated.
Wodzicki's excision theorem is extended for inclusion crossed modules in the category of crossed modules of algebras.
The cyclic and cotriple cyclic homologies of crossed modules are compared in terms of long exact homology sequence, generalising the relative cyclic homology exact sequence.
We give a $q$-enumeration of circular Dyck paths, which is a superset of the classical Dyck paths enumerated by the Catalan numbers.
These objects have recently been studied by Alexandersson and Panova.
Furthermore, we show that this $q$-analogue exhibits the cyclic sieving phenomenon under a natural action of the cyclic group.
The enumeration and cyclic sieving is generalized to Möbius paths.
We also discuss properties of a generalization of cyclic sieving, which we call subset cyclic sieving.
Finally, we also introduce the notion of Lyndon-like cyclic sieving that concerns special recursive properties of combinatorial objects exhibiting the cyclic sieving phenomenon.
Cyclic proof systems for Heyting and Peano arithmetic eschew induction axioms by accepting proofs which are finite graphs rather than trees.
Proving that such a cyclic proof system coincides with its more conventional variants is often difficult: Previous proofs in the literature rely on intricate arithmetisations of the metamathematics of the cyclic proof systems.
In this article, we present a simple and direct embedding of cyclic proofs for Heyting and Peano arithmetic into purely inductive, i.e. 'finitary', proofs by adapting a translation introduced by Sprenger and Dam for a cyclic proof system of $μ\text{FOL}$ with explicit ordinal approximations.
We extend their method to recover Das' result of $\text{C}Π_n \subseteq \text{I}Π_{n + 1}$ for Peano arithmetic.
As part of the embedding we present a novel representation of cyclic proofs as a labelled sequent calculus.
Suppose that $f(x)\in {\mathbb Z}[x]$ is monic and irreducible over ${\mathbb Q}$ of degree $N$.
We say that $f(x)$ is monogenic if $\{1,θ,θ^2,\ldots ,θ^{N-1}\}$ is a basis for the ring of integers of ${\mathbb Q}(θ)$, where $f(θ)=0$, and we say $f(x)$ is cyclic if the Galois group of $f(x)$ over ${\mathbb Q}$ is isomorphic to the cyclic group of order $N$.
In this note, we prove that there do not exist any monogenic even cyclic sextic binomials or trinomials.
Although the complete story on monogenic even cyclic sextic quadrinomials remains somewhat of a mystery, we nevertheless determine that the union of three particular infinite sets of cyclic sextic quadrinomials contains exactly four quadrinomials that are monogenic with distinct splitting fields.
We also show that the situation can be quite different for quadrinomials whose Galois group is not cyclic.
Cyclic proof theory breaks tradition by allowing certain infinite proofs: those that can be represented by a finite graph, while satisfying a soundness condition.
We reconcile cyclic proofs with traditional finite proofs: we extend abstract cyclic proof systems with a well-founded induction principle, and transform any cyclic proof into a finite proof in the extended system.
Moreover, this transformation preserves the structure of the cyclic proof.
Our results leverage an annotated representation of cyclic proofs, which allows us to extract induction hypotheses and to determine their introduction order.
The representation is essentially a reset proof with one key modification: names must be covered in a uniform way before a reset.
This innovation allows us to handle cyclic proofs where the underlying inductive sort is non-linear.
Our framework is general enough to cover recursive functions satisfying the size-change termination principle, which are viewed as cyclic proofs under the Curry-Howard correspondence.
Motivated by classical nontransitivity paradoxes, we call an $n$-tuple $(x_1,\dots,x_n) \in[0,1]^n$ \textit{cyclic} if there exist independent random variables $U_1,\dots, U_n$ with $P(U_i=U_j)=0$ for $i\not=j$ such that $P(U_{i+1}>U_i)=x_i$ for $i=1,\dots,n-1$ and $P(U_1>U_n)=x_n$.
We call the tuple $(x_1,\dots,x_n)$ \textit{nontransitive} if it is cyclic and in addition satisfies $x_i>1/2$ for all $i$.
Let $p_n$ (resp.~$p_n^*$) denote the probability that a randomly chosen $n$-tuple $(x_1,\dots,x_n)\in[0,1]^n$ is cyclic (resp.~nontransitive).
We determine $p_3$ and $p_3^*$ exactly, while for $n\ge4$ we give upper and lower bounds for $p_n$ that show that $p_n$ converges to $1$ as $n\to\infty$.
We also determine the distribution of the smallest, middle, and largest elements in a cyclic triple.
Cyclic models of the universe have the advantage of avoiding initial conditions problems related to postulating any sort of beginning in time.
To date, the only known viable examples of cyclic models have been ekpyrotic.
In this paper, we show that the recently proposed anamorphic scenario can also be made cyclic.
The key to the cyclic completion is a classically stable, non-singular bounce.
Remarkably, even though the bounce construction was originally developed to connect a period of contraction with a period of expansion both described by Einstein gravity, we show here that it can naturally be modified to connect an ordinary contracting phase described by Einstein gravity with a phase of anamorphic smoothing.
The paper will present the basic principles and steps in constructing cyclic anamorphic models.
We define stacks of uniform cyclic covers of Brauer-Severi schemes, proving that they can be realized as quotient stacks of open subsets of representations, and compute the Picard group for the open substacks parametrizing smooth uniform cyclic covers.
Moreover, we give an analogous description for stacks parametrizing triple cyclic covers of Brauer-Severi schemes of rank 1, which are not necessarily uniform, and give a presentation of the Picard group for substacks corresponding to smooth triple cyclic covers.
These lecture notes contain an exposition of basic ideas of K-theory and cyclic cohomology.
I begin with a list of examples of various situations in which the K-functor of Grothendieck appears naturally, including the rudiments of the topological and algebraic K-theory, K-theory of C^*-algebras, and K-homology.
I then discuss elementary properties of cyclic cohomology using the Cuntz-Quillen version of the calculus of noncommutative differential forms on an algebra.
As an example of the relation between the two theories we describe the Chern homomorphism and various index-theorem type statements.
The remainder of the notes contains some more detailed calculations in cyclic and reduced cyclic cohomology.
A key tool in this part is Goodwillie's theorem on the cyclic complex of a semi-direct product algebra.
The final chapter gives an exposition of the entire cyclic cohomology of Banach algebras from the point of view of supertraces on the Cuntz algebra.
The results discussed here include the simplicial normalization of the entire cyclic cohomology, homotopy invariance and the action of derivations.
We discuss which part of the rationalized algebraic K-theory of a group ring is detected via trace maps to Hochschild homology, cyclic homology, periodic cyclic or negative cyclic homology.
A binary linear code $C$ is a $\mathbb{Z}_2$-double cyclic code if the set of coordinates can be partitioned into two subsets such that any cyclic shift of the coordinates of both subsets leaves invariant the code.
These codes can be identified as submodules of the $\mathbb{Z}_2[x]$-module $\mathbb{Z}_2[x]/(x^r-1)\times\mathbb{Z}_2[x]/(x^s-1).$ We determine the structure of $\mathbb{Z}_2$-double cyclic codes giving the generator polynomials of these codes.
The related polynomial representation of $\mathbb{Z}_2$-double cyclic codes and its duals, and the relations between the polynomial generators of these codes are studied.
In this paper, a polynomial time algorithm for finding the set of all cyclic subsets in a graph is presented.
The concept of cyclic subsets has already been introduced in an earlier paper.
The algorithm finds cyclic subsets in a graph G by conjoining building block subsets of length three in V(G).
We prove the correctness of this algorithm and present an asymptotic time complexity analysis of the algorithm's performance.
We define a new cyclic module, dual to the Connes-Moscovici cyclic module, for Hopf algebras, and give a characteristric map for the coaction of Hopf algebras.
We also compute the resulting cyclic homology for cocommutative Hopf algebras, and some quantum groups.
Open Gromov-Witten invariants in general are not well-defined.
We discuss in detail the enumerative numbers of the Clifford torus $T^2$ in $\CP^2$.
For cyclic A-infinity algebras, we show that certain generalized way of counting may be defined up to Hochschild or cyclic boundary elements.
In particular we obtain a well-defined function on Hochschild or cyclic homology of a cyclic A-infinity algebra, which has invariance property under cyclic A-infinity homomorphism.
We discuss an example of Clifford torus $T^2$ and compute the invariant for a specific cyclic cohomology class.
Let $G$ be a group. \textit{The permutability graph of cyclic subgroups of $G$}, denoted by $Γ_c(G)$, is a graph with all the proper cyclic subgroups of $G$ as its vertices and two distinct vertices in $Γ_c(G)$ are adjacent if and only if the corresponding subgroups permute in $G$.
In this paper, we classify the finite groups whose permutability graph of cyclic subgroups belongs to one of the following: bipartite, tree, star graph, triangle-free, complete bipartite, $P_n$, $C_n$, $K_4$, $K_{1,3}$-free, unicyclic.
We classify abelian groups whose permutability graph of cyclic subgroups are planar.
Also we investigate the connectedness, diameter, girth, totally disconnectedness, completeness and regularity of these graphs.
Based on the ideas of Cuntz and Quillen, we give a simple construction of cyclic homology of unital algebras in terms of the noncommutative de Rham complex and a certain differential similar to the equivariant de Rham differential. We describe the Connes exact sequence in this setting.
We define equivariant Deligne cohomology and construct, for each n > 0, a natural map from cyclic homology of an algebra to the GL_n-equivariant Deligne cohomology of the variety of n-dimensional representations of that algebra.
The bridge between cyclic homology and equivariant Deligne cohomology is provided by extended cyclic homology, which we define and compute here, based on the extended noncommutative de Rham complex introduced previously by the authors.
Cyclic curves, i.e. curves fixed by a cyclic collineation group, play a central role in the investigation of cyclic arcs in Desarguesian projective planes.
In this paper, the genus of a cyclic curve arising from a cyclic k-arc of Singer type is computed.
Topological cyclic homology is a refinement of Connes--Tsygan's cyclic homology which was introduced by Bökstedt--Hsiang--Madsen in 1993 as an approximation to algebraic $K$-theory.
There is a trace map from algebraic $K$-theory to topological cyclic homology, and a theorem of Dundas--Goodwillie--McCarthy asserts that this induces an equivalence of relative theories for nilpotent immersions, which gives a way for computing $K$-theory in various situations.
The construction of topological cyclic homology is based on genuine equivariant homotopy theory, the use of explicit point-set models, and the elaborate notion of a cyclotomic spectrum.
The goal of this paper is to revisit this theory using only homotopy-invariant notions.
In particular, we give a new construction of topological cyclic homology.
This is based on a new definition of the $\infty$-category of cyclotomic spectra: We define a cyclotomic spectrum to be a spectrum $X$ with $S^1$-action (in the most naive sense) together with $S^1$-equivariant maps $\varphi_p: X\to X^{tC_p}$ for all primes $p$.
Here $X^{tC_p}=\mathrm{cofib}(\mathrm{Nm}: X_{hC_p}\to X^{hC_p})$ is the Tate construction.
On bounded below spectra, we prove that this agrees with previous definitions.
As a consequence, we obtain a new and simple formula for topological cyclic homology.
In order to construct the maps $\varphi_p: X\to X^{tC_p}$ in the example of topological Hochschild homology we introduce and study Tate diagonals for spectra and Frobenius homomorphisms of commutative ring spectra.
In particular we prove a version of the Segal conjecture for the Tate diagonals and relate these Frobenius homomorphisms to power operations.
We consider Lie groups equipped with a left-invariant cyclic Lorentzian metric.
As in the Riemannian case, in terms of homogeneous structures, such metrics can be considered as different as possible from bi-invariant metrics.
We show that several results concerning cyclic Riemannian metrics do not extend to their Lorentzian analogues, and obtain a full classification of three- and four-dimensional cyclic Lorentzian metrics.
We present an approach to cyclic homology of A_{\infty} algebras.
Our main technical tool is the concept of X-complex due to Cuntz and Quillen.
This, in particular, enables us to compute the periodic cyclic homology of an A_{\infty} algebra in terms of the periodic cyclic homology of its homology.
We relate Leibniz homology to cyclic homology by studying a map from a long exact sequence in the Leibniz theory to the ISB periodicity sequence in the cyclic theory.
This provides a setting by which the two theories can be compared via the 5-lemma.
We then show that the Godbillon-Vey invariant, as detected by the Leibniz homology of formal vector fields, maps to the Godbillon-Vey invariant as detected by the cyclic homology of the universal enveloping algebra of these vector fields.
In this article the cyclic cutwidth of the $n$-dimensional cube is explored.
It has been conjectured by Dr.
Trapp that the cyclic cutwidth of $Q_n$ is minimized with the Graycode numbering.
Several results have been found toward the proof of this conjecture.
A new bound on the minimum distance of q-ary cyclic codes is proposed.
It is based on the description by another cyclic code with small minimum distance.
The connection to the BCH bound and the Hartmann--Tzeng (HT) bound is formulated explicitly.
We show that for many cases our approach improves the HT bound.
Furthermore, we refine our bound for several families of cyclic codes.
We define syndromes and formulate a Key Equation that allows an efficient decoding up to our bound with the Extended Euclidean Algorithm.
It turns out that lowest-code-rate cyclic codes with small minimum distances are useful for our approach.
Therefore, we give a sufficient condition for binary cyclic codes of arbitrary length to have minimum distance two or three and lowest code-rate
We refine the cyclic cohomological apparatus for computing the Hopf cyclic cohomology of the Hopf algebras associated to infinite primitive Cartan-Lie pseudogroups, and for the transfer of their characteristic classes to foliations.
The main novel feature is the precise identification as a Hopf cyclic complex of the image of the canonical homomorphism from the Gelfand-Fuks complex to the Bott complex for equivariant cohomology.
This provides a convenient new model for the Hopf cyclic cohomology of the geometric Hopf algebras, which allows for an efficient transport of the Hopf cyclic classes via characteristic homomorphisms.
We illustrate the latter aspect by indicating how to realize the universal Hopf cyclic Chern classes in terms of explicit cocycles in the cyclic cohomology of foliation groupoids.
Let H be a Hopf algebra.
By definition a modular crossed H-module is a vector space M on which H acts and coacts in a compatible way.
To every modular crossed H-module M we associate a cyclic object Z(H,M).
The cyclic homology of Z(H,M) extends the usual cyclic homology of the algebra structure of H, and the relative cyclic homology of an H-Galois extension.
For a Hopf subalgebra K we compute, under some assumptions, the cyclic homology of an induced modular crossed module.
As a direct application of this computation, we describe the relative cyclic homology of strongly graded algebras.
In particular, we calculate the (usual) cyclic homology of group algebras and quantum tori.
Finally, when H is the enveloping algebra of a Lie algebra, we construct a spectral sequence that converges to the cyclic homology of H with coefficients in an arbitrary modular crossed module.
We also show that the cyclic homology of almost symmetric algebras is isomorphic to the cyclic homology of H with coefficients in a certain modular crossed-module.
We describe a way to compute mapping spaces of cyclic operads through modules.
As an application we compute the homotopy automorphism space of the cyclic Batalin-Vilkovisky (Hopf co-)operad.
Brotherston and Simpson [citation] have formalized and investigated cyclic reasoning, reaching the important conclusion that it is at least as powerful as inductive reasoning (specifically, they showed that each inductive proof can be translated into a cyclic proof).
We add to their investigation by proving the converse of this result, namely that each inductive proof can be translated into an inductive one.
This, in effect, establishes the equivalence between first order cyclic and inductive calculi.
Motivated by some questions in Euclidean Ramsey theory, our aim in this note is to show that there exists a cyclic quadrilateral that does not embed into any transitive set (in any dimension).
We show that in fact this holds for almost all cyclic quadrilaterals, and we also give explicit examples of such cyclic quadrilaterals.
These are the first explicit examples of spherical sets that do not embed into transitive sets.
Cyclic proof theory studies proofs where cycles are allowed.
This is useful for developing proof theory for logics with fixpoint operators: cycles can be used to represent the unfolding of a fixpoint.
However, this cyclic character is not unique to such explicit fixpoints.
For example, modal logics whose frames have a Noetherian (conversely wellfounded) condition, such as GL (Goedel-Loeb logic), S4Grz (Grzegorczyk logic) and K4Grz also have cyclic proof systems.
Particularly, Shamkanov introduces a non-wellfounded and a cyclic sequent system GL.
He proves the equivalence of these two systems with an acyclic finite system via proof translations.
In order to go from the finite system to the non-wellfounded system he defines the translation by corecursion.
Iemhoff generalized the work of Shamkanov studying when, for a given modal logic proof system, there exists another modal logic proof system such that proofs in the first are equivalent to cyclic proofs in the second.
There, she shows that iGL, an intuitionistic version of GL, also has a natural cyclic proof system.
We provide an alternative proof of the equivalence of a standard calculus for iGL and a cyclic one.
A series of recent articles has shown that there exist only three monogenic cyclic quartic trinomials in ${\mathbb Z}[x]$, and they are all of the form $x^4+bx^2+d$.
In this article, we conduct an analogous investigation for cubic trinomials in ${\mathbb Z}[x]$.
Two irreducible cyclic cubic trinomials are said to be equivalent if their splitting fields are equal. We show that there exist two infinite families of non-equivalent monogenic cyclic cubic trinomials of the form $x^3+Ax+B$.
We also show that there exist exactly four monogenic cyclic cubic trinomials of the form $x^3+Ax^2+B$, all of which are equivalent to $x^3-3x+1$.
A finite group is called a CLT-group if it contains a subgroup corresponding to every divisor of the order of the group.
It is said to be a Cyclic (Abelian) CLT group if it contains a cyclic (abelian) subgroup corresponding to every proper divisor of the order of the group.
A natural number is said to be a CCLT (ACLT) number if every group of that order is a cyclic (abelian) CLT group.
In this work, we classify all CCLT and ACLT numbers and study various properties of Cyclic (Abelian) CLT groups.
We also show that the classes of CCLT and ACLT groups are contained in the class of supersolvable groups.
Moreover, we introduce the function CCLT-degree on the set of non-cyclic finite groups and study the properties of this function.
In this paper we construct, using GAP System for Computational Discrete Algebra, some cyclic subspace codes, specially an optimal code over the finite field F_{2^{10}}.
Further we present a definition and an example of the $q$-analogous of a $m$-quasi-cyclic subspace code over F_{2^{8}}.
We introduce the cyclic major index of a cycle permutation and give a bivariate analogue of enumerative formula for the cyclic shuffles with a given cyclic descent numbers due to Adin, Gessel, Reiner and Roichman, which can be viewed as a cyclic analogue of Stanley's Shuffle Theorem.
This gives an answer to a question of Adin, Gessel, Reiner and Roichman, which has been posed by Domagalski, Liang, Minnich, Sagan, Schmidt and Sietsema again.
In this paper we study collections of mutually nearly orthogonal Latin squares ($\text{MNOLS}$), which come from a modification of the orthogonal condition for mutually orthogonal Latin squares.
In particular, we find the maximum $μ$ such that there exists a set of $μ$ cyclic $\text{MNOLS}$ of order $n$ for $n \leq 18$, as well as providing a full enumeration of sets and lists of $μ$ cyclic $\text{MNOLS}$ of order $n$ under a variety of equivalences with $n \leq 18$.
This resolves in the negative a conjecture that proposed the maximum $μ$ for which a set of $μ$ cyclic $\text{MNOLS}$ of order $n$ exists is $\lceil n/4\rceil +1$.
A finite group is said to be $n$-cyclic if it contains $n$ cyclic subgroups.
For a finite group $G$, the ratio of the number of cyclic subgroups to the number of subgroups is known as the cyclicity degree of the group $G$ and is denoted by $cdeg (G)$.
In this paper, we classify all $12$-cyclic groups.
We also prove that the set of cyclicity degrees for all the finite groups is dense in $[0,1]$, which gives a solution to the problem asked by Tărnăuceanu and Tóth in [20] "For every $a\in [0, 1]$, does there exist a sequence $(G_n)$ of finite groups such that $\lim_{n\to\infty} cdeg(G_n)=a$ "?
Cyclic codes are a subclass of linear codes and have wide applications in consumer electronics, data storage systems, and communication systems due to their efficient encoding and decoding algorithms.
Cyclic codes with many zeros and their dual codes have been a subject of study for many years.
However, their weight distributions are known only for a very small number of cases.
In general the calculation of the weight distribution of cyclic codes is heavily based on the evaluation of some exponential sums over finite fields.
Very recently, Li, Hu, Feng and Ge studied a class of $p$-ary cyclic codes of length $p^{2m}-1$, where $p$ is a prime and $m$ is odd.
They determined the weight distribution of this class of cyclic codes by establishing a connection between the involved exponential sums with the spectrum of Hermitian forms graphs.
In this paper, this class of $p$-ary cyclic codes is generalized and the weight distribution of the generalized cyclic codes is settled for both even $m$ and odd $m$ alone with the idea of Li, Hu, Feng, and Ge.
The weight distributions of two related families of cyclic codes are also determined.
Charged cyclic polymers, e.g. cyclic DNAs and polypeptides, play enabling roles in organisms, but their synthesis was challenging due to the well known polyelectrolyte effect.
To tackle the challenge, we developed a templated method to synthesize a library of imidazolium and pyridinium based cyclic poly(ionic liquid)s.
Cyclic templates, cyclic polyimidazole and poly(2-pyridine), were synthesized first through ring-closure method by light-induced Diels-Alder click reaction.
Through quaternization of cyclic templates followed by anion metathesis, the cyclic poly(ionic liquid)s were synthesized, which paired with varied counter anions.
The cyclic sieving phenomenon was defined by Reiner, Stanton, and White in a 2004 paper.
Let X be a finite set, C be a finite cyclic group acting on X, and f(q) be a polynomial in q with nonnegative integer coefficients.
Then the triple (X,C,f(q)) exhibits the cyclic sieving phenomenon if, for all g in C, we have # X^g = f(w) where # denotes cardinality, X^g is the fixed point set of g, and w is a root of unity chosen to have the same order as g.
It might seem improbable that substituting a root of unity into a polynomial with integer coefficients would have an enumerative meaning.
But many instances of the cyclic sieving phenomenon have now been found.
Furthermore, the proofs that this phenomenon hold often involve interesting and sometimes deep results from representation theory.
We will survey the current literature on cyclic sieving, providing the necessary background about representations, Coxeter groups, and other algebraic aspects as needed.
This paper introduces the cyclic subfactors, generalizing the cyclic groups as the subfactors generalize the groups, and generalizing the natural numbers as the maximal subfactors generalize the prime numbers.
On one hand, a theorem of O.
Ore states that a finite group is cyclic if and only if its subgroups lattice is distributive, and on the other hand, every subgroup of a cyclic group is normal. Then, a subfactor planar algebra is called cyclic if all the biprojections are normal and form a distributive lattice.
The main result shows in what sense a cyclic subfactor is singly generated, by generalizing one side of Ore's theorem as follows: if a subfactor planar algebra is cyclic then it is weakly cyclic (or w-cyclic), i.e. there is a minimal 2-box projection generating the identity biprojection.
Some extensions of this result are discussed, and some applications of it are given in subfactors, quantum groups and finite group theories, for example, a non-trivial upper bound for the minimal number of irreducible complex representations generating the left regular representation.
The notion of a cyclic map g: A -> X is a natural generalization of a Gottlieb element in pi_n(X).
We investigate cyclic maps from a rational homotopy theory point of view.
We show a number of results for rationalized cyclic maps which generalize well-known results on the rationalized Gottlieb groups.
We investigate the cyclic proof theory of extensions of Peano Arithmetic by (finitely iterated) inductive definitions.
Such theories are essential to proof theoretic analyses of certain `impredicative' theories; moreover, our cyclic systems naturally subsume Simpson's Cyclic Arithmetic.
Our main result is that cyclic and inductive systems for arithmetical inductive definitions are equally powerful.
We conduct a metamathematical argument, formalising the soundness of cyclic proofs within second-order arithmetic by a form of induction on closure ordinals, thence appealing to conservativity results.
This approach is inspired by those of Simpson and Das for Cyclic Arithmetic, however we must further address a difficulty: the closure ordinals of our inductive definitions (around Church-Kleene) far exceed the proof theoretic ordinal of the appropriate metatheory (around Bachmann-Howard), so explicit induction on their notations is not possible.
For this reason, we rather rely on formalisation of the theory of (recursive) ordinals within second-order arithmetic.
There is a long list of open questions rooted in the same underlying problem: understanding the structure of bases or common bases of matroids.
These conjectures suggest that matroids may possess much stronger structural properties than are currently known.
One example is related to cyclic orderings of matroids.
A rank-$r$ matroid is called cyclically orderable if its ground set admits a cyclic ordering such that any interval of $r$ consecutive elements forms a basis.
In this paper, we show that if the ground set of a split matroid decomposes into pairwise disjoint bases, then it is cyclically orderable.
This result answers a conjecture of Kajitani, Ueno, and Miyano in a special case, and also strengthens Gabow's conjecture for this class of matroids.
Our proof is algorithmic, hence it provides a procedure for determining a cyclic ordering in question using a polynomial number of independence oracle calls.
We consider linear cyclic codes with the locality property, or locally recoverable codes (LRC codes).
A family of LRC codes that generalize the classical construction of Reed-Solomon codes was constructed in a recent paper by I.
In this paper we focus on optimal cyclic codes that arise from this construction.
We give a characterization of these codes in terms of their zeros, and observe that there are many equivalent ways of constructing optimal cyclic LRC codes over a given field.
We also study subfield subcodes of cyclic LRC codes (BCH-like LRC codes) and establish several results about their locality and minimum distance.
The locality parameter of a cyclic code is related to the dual distance of this code, and we phrase our results in terms of upper bounds on the dual distance.
We generalize the notion of cyclic codes by using generator polynomials in (non commutative) skew polynomial rings.
Since skew polynomial rings are left and right euclidean, the obtained codes share most properties of cyclic codes.
Since there are much more skew-cyclic codes, this new class of codes allows to systematically search for codes with good properties.
We give many examples of codes which improve the previously best known linear codes.
We define cyclic cohomology of corings over not necessarily commutative algebras.
We observe that the key fact which allows us to define this complex is that enveloping algebra of an algebra is a para Hopf algebroid.
This observation enables us to define Hopf cyclic cohomology of corings on which para Hopf algebroids act.
All crossed products of two cyclic groups are explicitly described using generators and relations.
A necessary and sufficient condition for an extension of a group by a group to be a cyclic group is given.
We study the algebraic geometry of twisted Higgs bundles of cyclic type along complex curves.
These objects, which generalize ordinary cyclic Higgs bundles, can be identified with representations of a cyclic quiver in a twisted category of coherent sheaves.
Referring to the Hitchin fibration, we produce a fibre-wise geometric description of the locus of such representations within the ambient twisted Higgs moduli space.
When the genus is 0, we produce a concrete geometric identification of the moduli space as a vector bundle over an associated (twisted) A-type quiver variety; we count the number of points at which the cyclic moduli space intersects a Hitchin fibre; and we describe explicitly certain $\mathbb{C}^\times$-flows into the nilpotent cone.
We also extend this description to moduli of certain twisted cyclic quivers whose rank vector has components larger than 1.
We show that, for certain choices of underlying bundle, such moduli spaces decompose as a product of cyclic quiver varieties in which each node is a line bundle.
Irreducible cyclic codes are an interesting type of codes and have applications in space communications.
They have been studied for decades and a lot of progress has been made.
The objectives of this paper are to survey and extend earlier results on the weight distributions of irreducible cyclic codes, present a divisibility theorem and develop bounds on the weights in irreducible cyclic codes.
Let Z_m^k consist of the m^k alcoves contained in the m-fold dilation of the fundamental alcove of the type A_k affine hyperplane arrangement.
As the fundamental alcove has a cyclic symmetry of order (k+1), so does Z_m^k.
By bijectively exchanging the natural poset structure of Z_m^k for a natural cyclic action on a set of words, we prove an instance of the cyclic sieving phenomenon.
In an interesting paper Professor Cunsheng Ding provided three constructions of cyclic codes of length being a product of two primes.
Numerical data shows that many codes from these constructions are best cyclic codes of the same length and dimension over the same finite field.
However, not much is known about these codes.
In this paper we explain some of the mysteries of the numerical data by developing a general method on cyclic codes of composite length and on estimating the minimal distance.
Inspired by the new method, we also provide a general construction of cyclic codes of composite length.
Numerical data shows that it produces many best cyclic codes as well.
Finally, we point out how these cyclic codes can be used to construct convolutional codes with large free distance.
We show that, for any prime p, a knot K in the 3-sphere is determined by its p-fold cyclic unbranched covering.
We also investigate when the m-fold cyclic unbranched covering of a knot coincides with the n-fold cyclic unbranched covering of another knot, for different coprime integers m and n.
Cyclic contractions generalize the usual contractivities in metric spaces and $b$-MSs.
In this paper, we enhance several fixed point theorems related to cyclic (i) Banach self-maps, (ii) Chatterjea contractivities, (iii) Kannan self-mappings, (iv) Ćirić and Hardy-Rogers, and (v) Reich contractions including local versions in $b$-metric spaces while also delineating the associated dynamics.
Especially noteworthy is the expansion of the results concerning both fixed and periodic points, which are substantiated across a wider spectrum of ratio values for the aforementioned cyclic contractions within this class of spaces.
Additionally, the convergence of Picard iterations towards the fixed point is rigorously established.
The problem of efficiently characterizing degree sequences of simple hypergraphs is a fundamental long-standing open problem in Graph Theory.
Several results are known for restricted versions of this problem.
This paper adds to the list of sufficient conditions for a degree sequence to be {\em hypergraphic}.
This paper proves a combinatorial lemma about cyclically permuting the columns of a binary table with length $n$ binary sequences as rows.
We prove that for any set of cyclic permutations acting on its columns, the resulting table has all of its $2^n$ rows distinct.
Using this property, we first define a subset {\em cyclic hyper degrees} of hypergraphic sequences and show that they admit a polynomial time recognition algorithm.
Next, we prove that there are at least $2^{\frac{(n-1)(n-2)}{2}}$ {\em cyclic hyper degrees}, which also serves as a lower bound on the number of {\em hypergraphic} sequences.
The {\em cyclic hyper degrees} also enjoy a structural characterization, they are the integral points contained in the union of some $n$-dimensional rectangles.
A family of groups is called (maximal) cyclic bounded ((M)CB) if, for every natural number $n$, there are only finitely many groups in the family with at most $n$ (maximal) cyclic subgroups.
We prove that the family of groups of prime power order is MCB.
We also prove that the family of finite groups without cyclic coprime direct factors is CB.
As a consequence, a natural number $n \geqslant 10$ is prime if and only if there are only finitely many finite noncyclic groups with precisely $n$ cyclic subgroups.
We discuss the Kummer subspaces of tensor products of cyclic algebras, focusing mainly on the case of cyclic algebras of degree 3.
We present a family of maximal spaces in the general case, classify all the monomial spaces in the case of tensor products of cyclic algebras of degree 3 using graph theory, and provide an upper bound for the dimension in the generic tensor product of cyclic algebras of degree 3.
A lot of attention has been paid to the investigation of the algebraic properties of linear codes.
In most cases, this investigation involves the determination of required code automorphisms, which are useful for decoders, such as the automorphism ensemble decoder.
It is worth noting that the examination of the automorphism groups of discrete symmetric objects has long been a highly regarded field of research.
Cyclic codes, as a significant subclass of linear codes, can be constructed and analyzed using algebraic methods.
And due to its cyclic nature, they have efficient encoding and decoding algorithms.
To date, cyclic codes have found applications in various domains, including consumer electronics, data storage systems, and communication systems.
In this paper, we investigate the full automorphism groups of binary cyclic codes.
In particular, we present constructions for binary cyclic codes of long lengths that facilitate the determination of the full automorphism groups.
Cyclic coverings produce many examples of topologically contractible smooth affine complex varieties.
In this paper, we study the motivic cohomology groups of cyclic coverings over algebraically closed fields of characteristic $0$.
In particular, we prove that in many situations Chow groups of cyclic coverings become trivial after tensoring with $\mathbb{Q}$.
Furthermore, we can prove that the Chow groups of certain bicyclic coverings are trivial even without tensoring with $\mathbb{Q}$.
We consider groups of the form $G=AB$ with two locally cyclic subgroups $A$ and $B$.
The structure of these groups is determined in the cases when $A$ and $B$ are both periodic or when one of them is periodic and the other is not.
Together with a previous study of the case when $A$ and $B$ are torsion-free, this gives a complete classification of all groups that are the product of two locally cyclic groups.
It is also shown that the product of a finite number of pairwise permutable periodic locally cyclic subgroups is a locally supersoluble group.
A graph is said to be cyclic $k$-edge-connected, if at least $k$ edges must be removed to disconnect it into two components, each containing a cycle.
Such a set of $k$ edges is called a cyclic-$k$-edge cutset and it is called a trivial cyclic-$k$-edge cutset if at least one of the resulting two components induces a single $k$-cycle.
It is known that fullerenes, that is, 3-connected cubic planar graphs all of whose faces are pentagons and hexagons, are cyclic 5-edge-connected.
In this article it is shown that a fullerene $F$ containing a nontrivial cyclic-5-edge cutset admits two antipodal pentacaps, that is, two antipodal pentagonal faces whose neighboring faces are also pentagonal. Moreover, it is shown that $F$ has a Hamilton cycle, and as a consequence at least $15\cdot 2^{\lfloor \frac{n}{20}\rfloor}$ perfect matchings, where $n$ is the order of $F$.
Let $G$ be an $n$-vertex connected graph.
A cyclic base ordering of $G$ is a cyclic ordering of all edges such that every cyclically consecutive $n-1$ edges induce a spanning tree of $G$.
In this project, we study cyclic base ordering of triangular grid graphs, series composition of graphs, generalized theta graphs, and circulant graphs.
We introduce a convenient definition for weak cyclic operads, which is based on unrooted trees and Segal conditions.
More specifically, we introduce a category $Ξ$ of trees, which carries a tight relationship to the Moerdijk-Weiss category of rooted trees $Ω$.
We prove a nerve theorem exhibiting colored cyclic operads as presheaves on $Ξ$ which satisfy a Segal condition.
Finally, we produce a Quillen model category whose fibrant objects satisfy a weak Segal condition, and we consider these objects as an up-to-homotopy generalization of the concept of cyclic operad.
Two skew cyclic codes can be equivalent for the Hamming metric only if they have the same length, and only the zero code is degenerate.
The situation is completely different for the rank metric, where lengths of codes correspond to the number of outgoing links from the source when applying the code on a network.
We study rank equivalences between skew cyclic codes of different lengths and, with the aim of finding the skew cyclic code of smallest length that is rank equivalent to a given one, we define different types of length for a given skew cyclic code, relate them and compute them in most cases.
We give different characterizations of rank degenerate skew cyclic codes using conventional polynomials and linearized polynomials.
Some known results on the rank weight hierarchy of cyclic codes for some lengths are obtained as particular cases and extended to all lengths and to all skew cyclic codes.
Finally, we prove that the smallest length of a linear code that is rank equivalent to a given skew cyclic code can be attained by a pseudo-skew cyclic code.
Throughout the paper, we find new relations between linear skew cyclic codes and their Galois closures.
Orbit harmonics is a tool in combinatorial representation theory which promotes the (ungraded) action of a linear group $G$ on a finite set $X$ to a graded action of $G$ on a polynomial ring quotient by viewing $X$ as a $G$-stable point locus in $\mathbb{C}^n$.
The cyclic sieving phenomenon is a notion in enumerative combinatorics which encapsulates the fixed-point structure of the action of a finite cyclic group $C$ on a finite set $X$ in terms of root-of-unity evaluations of an auxiliary polynomial $X(q)$.
We apply orbit harmonics to prove cyclic sieving results.
In $1998,$ Daemen {\it{ et al.}} introduced a circulant Maximum Distance Separable (MDS) matrix in the diffusion layer of the Rijndael block cipher, drawing significant attention to circulant MDS matrices.
This block cipher is now universally acclaimed as the AES block cipher.
In $2016,$ Liu and Sim introduced cyclic matrices by modifying the permutation of circulant matrices and established the existence of MDS property for orthogonal left-circulant matrices, a notable subclass within cyclic matrices.
While circulant matrices have been well-studied in the literature, the properties of cyclic matrices are not.
Back in $1961$, Friedman introduced $g$-circulant matrices which form a subclass of cyclic matrices.
In this article, we first establish a permutation equivalence between a cyclic matrix and a circulant matrix.
We explore properties of cyclic matrices similar to $g$-circulant matrices.
Additionally, we determine the determinant of $g$-circulant matrices of order $2^d \times 2^d$ and prove that they cannot be simultaneously orthogonal and MDS over a finite field of characteristic $2$.
Furthermore, we prove that this result holds for any cyclic matrix.
In this paper we introduce the definition of transitivity for oriented 3-hypergraphs in order to study partial and complete cyclic orders.
This definition allow us to give sufficient conditions on a partial cyclic order to be totally extendable.
Furthermore, we introduce the 3-hypergraph associated to a cyclic permutation and characterize it in terms of cyclic comparability 3-hypergraphs.
Cyclic words are equivalence classes of cyclic permutations of ordinary words.
When a group is given by a rewriting relation, a rewriting system on cyclic words is induced, which is used to construct algorithms to find minimal length elements of conjugacy classes in the group.
These techniques are applied to the universal groups of Stallings pregroups and in particular to free products with amalgamation, HNN-extensions and virtually free groups, to yield simple and intuitive algorithms and proofs of conjugacy criteria.
We study quantum dilogarithm identities for cyclic quivers following Reineke's idea via Ringel-Hall algebra approach.
For any given discrete stability function for the cyclic quiver $Δ_n$ with $n$ vertices, we obtain certain cyclic quantum dilogarithm identities of order $n$ in the sense of Bytsko and Volkov.
In this paper convolutional codes with cyclic structure will be investigated.
These codes can be understood as left principal ideals in a suitable skew-polynomial ring.
It has been shown in [3] that only certain combinations of the parameters (field size, length, dimension, and Forney indices) can occur for cyclic codes.
We will investigate whether all these combinations can indeed be realized by a suitable cyclic code and, if so, how to construct such a code.
A complete characterization and construction will be given for minimal cyclic codes.
It is derived from a detailed investigation of the units in the skew-polynomial ring.
We give a survey of cyclic homology/cohomology theory including a detailed discussion of cyclic theories for various classes of topological algebras.
We show how to associate cyclic classes with Fredholm modules and $K$-theory classes and how to construct a completely general bivariant Chern-Connes character from bivariant $K$-theory to bivariant cyclic theory.
In addition to their applications in data storage, communications systems, and consumer electronics, LCD codes -- a class of linear codes -- have been employed in cryptography recently.
LCD cyclic codes were referred to as reversible cyclic codes in the literature.
The objective of this paper is to construct several families of reversible cyclic codes over finite fields and analyse their parameters.
The LCD cyclic codes presented in this paper have very good parameters in general, and contain many optimal codes.
A well rounded treatment of reversible cyclic codes is also given in this paper.
A cyclic complementary extension of a finite group $A$ is a finite group $G$ which contains $A$ and a cyclic subgroup $C$ such that $A\cap C=\{1_G\}$ and $G=AC$.
For any fixed generator $c$ of the cyclic factor $C=\langle c\rangle$ of order $n$ in a cyclic complementary extension $G=AC$, the equations $cx=\varphi(x)c^{Π(x)}$, $x\in A$, determine a permutation $\varphi:A\to A$ and a function $Π:A\to\mathbb{Z}_n$ on $A$ characterized by the properties:   (a) $\varphi(1_A)=1_A$ and $Π(1_A)\equiv1\pmod{n}$; (b) $\varphi(xy)=\varphi(x)\varphi^{Π(x)}(y)$ and $Π(xy)\equiv\sum_{i=1}^{Π(x)}Π(\varphi^{i-1}(y))\pmod{n}$, for all $x,y\in A$.
The permutation $\varphi$ is called a skew-morphism of $A$ and has already been extensively studied.
One of the main contributions of the present paper is the recognition of the importance of the function $Π$, which we call the extended power function associated with $\varphi$.
We show that {\em every} cyclic complementary extension of $A$ is determined and can be constructed from a skew-morphism $\varphi$ of $A$ and an extended power function $Π$ associated with $\varphi$.
As an application, we present a classification of cyclic complementary extensions of cyclic groups obtained using skew-morphisms which are group automorphisms.
We will consider P-graph complexes, where P is a cyclic operad.
P-graph complexes are natural generalizations of Kontsevich's graph complexes -- for P = the operad for associative algebras it is the complex of ribbon graphs, for P = the operad for commutative associative algebras, the complex of all graphs.
We construct a `universal class' in the cohomology of the graph complex with coefficients in a theory.
The Kontsevich-type invariant is then an evaluation, on a concrete cyclic algebra, of this class.
We also explain some results of M.
Schwarz on the construction of an invariant from a cyclic deformation of a cyclic algebra.
Our constructions are illustrated by a `toy model' of tree complexes.
Construction of subspace codes with good parameters is one of the most important problems in random network coding.
In this paper we present first a generalization of the concept of cyclic subspaces codes and further we show that the usual methods for constructing cyclic subspace codes over finite fields works for m-quasi cyclic codes, namely the subspaces polynomials and Frobenius mappings.
Due to their efficient encoding and decoding algorithms cyclic codes, a subclass of linear codes, have applications in consumer electronics, data storage systems, and communication systems.
In this paper, Dickson polynomials of the first and second kind over finite fields are employed to construct a number of classes of cyclic codes.
Lower bounds on the minimum weight of some classes of the cyclic codes are developed.
The minimum weights of some other classes of the codes constructed in this paper are determined.
The dimensions of the codes obtained in this paper are flexible.
Most of the codes presented in this paper are optimal or almost optimal in the sense that they meet some bound on linear codes.
Over ninety cyclic codes of this paper should be used to update the current database of tables of best linear codes known.
Among them sixty are optimal in the sense that they meet some bound on linear codes and the rest are cyclic codes having the same parameters as the best linear code in the current database maintained at http://www.codetables.de/.
Cyclic cohomology has been recently adapted to the treatment of Hopf symmetry in noncommutative geometry.
The resulting theory of characteristic classes for Hopf algebras and their actions on algebras allows to expand the range of applications of cyclic cohomology.
It is the goal of the present paper to illustrate these recent developments, with special emphasis on the application to transverse index theory, and point towards future directions.
In particular, we highlight the remarkable accord between our framework for cyclic cohomology of Hopf algebras on one hand and both the algebraic as well as the analytic theory of quantum groups on the other, manifest in the construction of the modular square.
The cyclic relation obtained in a study by Hirose, Murakami, and the first-named author, is a wide class of relations, which includes the well-known cyclic sum formula for multiple zeta and zeta-star values, and the derivation relation for multiple zeta values.
In this paper, we present its generalization to complex variables.
Our proof includes a new proof of the cyclic relation.
We obtain a mixed complex, simpler that the canonical one, given the Hochschild, cyclic, negative and periodic homology of a crossed product E=A#fH, where H is an arbitrary Hopf algebra and f is a convolution invertible cocycle with values in A.
Actually, we work in the more general context of relative cyclic homology.
Specifically, we consider a subalgebra K of A which is stable under the action of H, and we find a mixed complex computing the Hochschild, cyclic, negative and periodic homology of E relative to K.
As an application we obtain two spectral sequences converging to the cyclic homology of E relative to K.
The first one in the general setting and the second one (which generalizes those previously found by several authors) when f takes its values in K.
We give a cyclic sieving phenomenon for symplectic $λ$-tableaux $SP(λ,2m)$, where $λ$ is a partition of an odd integer $n$ and $gcd(m,p)=1$ for any odd prime $p\leq n$.
We use the crystal structure on Kashiwara-Nakashima symplectic tableaux to get a cyclic sieving action as the product $σ$ of simple reflections in the Weyl group.
The cyclic sieving polynomial is the $q$-anologue of the hook-content formula for symplectic tableaux.
More generally, we give a CSP for symplectic skew tableaux with analogous conditions on the shape and a cyclic group action that rotates tableaux weights in a way motivated by the $σ$-action.
A graph $G$ is cyclically $c$-edge-connected if there is no set of fewer than $c$ edges that disconnects $G$ into at least two cyclic components.
We prove that if a $(k, g)$-cage $G$ has at most $2M(k, g) - g^2$ vertices, where $M(k, g)$ is the Moore bound, then $G$ is cyclically $(k - 2)g$-edge-connected, which equals the number of edges separating a $g$-cycle, and every cycle-separating $(k - 2)g$-edge-cut in $G$ separates a cycle of length $g$.
In particular, this is true for unknown cages with $(k, g) \in \{(3, 13), (3, 14), (3, 15), (4, 9), (4, 10)$, $(4, 11),$ $(5, 7), (5, 9), (5, 10), (5, 11), (6, 7), (9, 7)\}$ and also the potential missing Moore graph with degree $57$ and diameter $2$.
Keywords: cage, cyclic connectivity, girth, lower bound
We introduce and study a complexity function on words $c_x(n),$ called \emph{cyclic complexity}, which counts the number of conjugacy classes of factors of length $n$ of an infinite word $x.$ We extend the well-known Morse-Hedlund theorem to the setting of cyclic complexity by showing that a word is ultimately periodic if and only if it has bounded cyclic complexity.
Unlike most complexity functions, cyclic complexity distinguishes between Sturmian words of different slopes.
We prove that if $x$ is a Sturmian word and $y$ is a word having the same cyclic complexity of $x,$ then up to renaming letters, $x$ and $y$ have the same set of factors.
In particular, $y$ is also Sturmian of slope equal to that of $x.$ Since $c_x(n)=1$ for some $n\geq 1$ implies $x$ is periodic, it is natural to consider the quantity $\liminf_{n\rightarrow \infty} c_x(n).$ We show that if $x$ is a Sturmian word, then $\liminf_{n\rightarrow \infty} c_x(n)=2.$ We prove however that this is not a characterization of Sturmian words by exhibiting a restricted class of Toeplitz words, including the period-doubling word, which also verify this same condition on the limit infimum.
In contrast we show that, for the Thue-Morse word $t$, $\liminf_{n\rightarrow \infty} c_t(n)=+\infty.$
First we argue that many BV and homotopy BV structures, including both familiar and new examples, arise from a common underlying construction.
The input of this construction is a cyclic operad along with a cyclically invariant Maurer-Cartan element in an associated Lie algebra.
Using this result we introduce and study the operad of cyclically invariant operations, with instances arising in cyclic cohomology and $S^1$ equivariant homology.
We compute the homology of the cyclically invariant operations; the result being the homology operad of $\mathcal{M}_{0,n+1}$, the uncompactified moduli spaces of punctured Riemann spheres, which we call the gravity operad after Getzler.
Motivated by the line of inquiry of Deligne's conjecture we construct `cyclic brace operations' inducing the gravity relations up-to-homotopy on the cochain level.
Motivated by string topology, we show such a gravity-BV pair is related by a long exact sequence.
Examples and implications are discussed in course.
A Cayley graph is said to be an NNN-graph if it is both normal and non-normal for isomorphic regular groups, and a group has the NNN-property if there exists an NNN-graph for it.
In this paper we investigate the NNN-property of cyclic groups, and show that cyclic groups do not have the NNN-property.
We propose a $λ$-calculus-style formal language, called the $μ$-syntax, as a lightweight representation of the structure of cyclic operads.
We illustrate the rewriting methods behind the formalism by giving a complete step-by-step proof of the equivalence between the unbiased and biased definitions of cyclic operads.
We construct, study, and apply a characteristic map from the relative periodic cyclic homology of the quotient map for a group action to the periodic Hopf-cyclic homology with coefficients associated with inertia of the action.
This result admits, and in fact, comes from, its noncommutative-geometric, or quantized, counterpart.
The crucial ingredient is the construction of the appropriate quantization of the cyclic nerve of the action groupoid, the cyclic object related to inertia, as the Connes-cyclic dual of a Hopf-cyclic object with coefficients in some stable anti-Yetter--Drinfeld module quantizing the Brylinski space.
For the Hopf-Galois quantization of the case of trivial inertia, we find a non-trivial identification of our characteristic map with a well-known isomorphism of Jara--Ştefan.
In presence of nontrivial inertia, for an analytic ramified Galois double cover, we show that the cokernel of our characteristic map, which can be interpreted as an invariant of inertia modulo topology of the maximal free action, is supported on the branch locus of the quotient map.
Finally, we use our inertial Hopf-cyclic object to construct a new invariant of finite-dimensional algebras.
Locally recoverable (LRC) codes and their variants have been extensively studied in recent years.
In this paper we focus on cyclic constructions of LRC codes and derive conditions on the zeros of the code that support the property of hierarchical locality.
As a result, we obtain a general family of hierarchical LRC codes for a new range of code parameters.
We also observe that our approach enables one to represent an LRC code in quasicyclic form, and use this representation to construct tail-biting convolutional LRC codes with locality.
Among other results, we extend the general approach to cyclic codes with locality to multidimensional cyclic codes, yielding new families of LRC codes with availability, and construct a family of q-ary cyclic hierarchical LRC codes of unbounded length.
This paper introduces a chain model for the Deligne-Mumford operad formed by homotopically trivializing the circle in a chain model for the framed little disks.
We then show that under degeneration of the Hochschild to cyclic cohomology spectral sequence, a known action of the framed little disks on Hochschild cochains lifts to an action of this new chain model.
We thus establish homotopy hyper-commutative algebra structures on both Hochschild and cyclic cochain complexes, and we interpret the gravity brackets on cyclic cohomology as obstructions to degeneration of this spectral sequence.
Our results are given in the language of deformation complexes of cyclic operads.
This paper presents a systematic study of the structure of non-solvable cyclic metric Lie algebras.
A cyclic metric is a symmetric bilinear form satisfying a cyclic cocycle condition, which arises naturally in the contexts of non-associative algebras and homogeneous pseudo-Riemannian manifolds.
Firstly, we drive some sufficient conditions for a cyclic metric Lie algebra to be an orthogonal direct product of its semisimple and solvable parts.
Then we introduce the notion of cyclic quadruples to analyze the interaction between semisimple and radical components.
Finally, we use the double extension method to provide a complete characterization of non-degenerate cyclic metric Lie algebras that are neither semisimple nor solvable, over the fields of complex and real numbers.
We show that an outer automorphism acts loxodromically on the cyclic splitting complex if and only if it has a filling lamination and no generic leaf of the lamination is carried by a vertex group of a cyclic splitting.
This is the analog for the cyclic splitting complex of Handel-Mosher's theorem on loxodromics for the free splitting complex.
We also show that such outer automorphisms have virtually cyclic centralizers.
A Z2Z4-additive code C is called cyclic if the set of coordinates can be partitioned into two subsets, the set of Z_2 and the set of Z_4 coordinates, such that any cyclic shift of the coordinates of both subsets leaves the code invariant.
We study the binary images of Z2Z4-additive cyclic codes.
We determine all Z2Z4-additive cyclic codes with odd beta whose Gray images are linear binary codes.
A proper edge-coloring of a graph $G$ with colors $1,\ldots,t$ is called an \emph{interval cyclic $t$-coloring} if all colors are used, and the edges incident to each vertex $v\in V(G)$ are colored by $d_{G}(v)$ consecutive colors modulo $t$, where $d_{G}(v)$ is the degree of a vertex $v$ in $G$.
A graph $G$ is \emph{interval cyclically colorable} if it has an interval cyclic $t$-coloring for some positive integer $t$.
The set of all interval cyclically colorable graphs is denoted by $\mathfrak{N}_{c}$.
For a graph $G\in \mathfrak{N}_{c}$, the least and the greatest values of $t$ for which it has an interval cyclic $t$-coloring are denoted by $w_{c}(G)$ and $W_{c}(G)$, respectively.
In this paper we investigate some properties of interval cyclic colorings.
In particular, we prove that if $G$ is a triangle-free graph with at least two vertices and $G\in \mathfrak{N}_{c}$, then $W_{c}(G)\leq \vert V(G)\vert +Δ(G)-2$.
We also obtain bounds on $w_{c}(G)$ and $W_{c}(G)$ for various classes of graphs.
Finally, we give some methods for constructing of interval cyclically non-colorable graphs.
This paper (written in Russian) presents a survey of new and earlier results on fine zonotopal tilings (briefly, cubillages) of cyclic zonotopes.
The combinatorial theory of these objects is of interest in its own right and also has a connection to higher Bruhat orders, triangulations of cyclic polytopes, and Tamari-Stasheff posets applied in the study of Kadomtsev--Petviashvily equations, and etc.
We demonstrate that there exists a class of cyclic cosmological models, such that these models can in principle solve the problem of the entropy growth, and are at the same time geodesically complete.
We thus show that some recently stated conclusions, according to which cyclic cosmologies solving the problem of entropy growth can not be geodesically complete due to the Borde-Guth-Vilenkin (BGV) theorem, are not justified.
We also add a short conceptual discussion on entropy and cyclic cosmology, and present a detailed analysis of entropy density growth during periodic and non-periodic evolution for cyclic cosmologies.
In this Letter we illustrate the possible cyclic fermion pairing states across Feshbach resonances in optical lattices.
In cyclic fermion pairing, the pairing amplitude exhibits an oscillatory behavior as the detuning varies.
We estimate the quasi-particle gaps in different regimes of the resonances.
Ramharter asks what are the extremal arrangements for the cyclic analogues of the regular and semi-regular continuants first introduced by T.S.
In this paper we answer this question by showing that for each set $A$ consisting of positive integers $1<a_1<a_2<\cdots <a_k$ and a $k$-term partition $P: n_1+n_2 + \cdots + n_k=n$, there exists a unique (up to reversal) cyclic word $x$ which maximizes (resp. minimizes) the regular cyclic continuant $K^{\circlearrowright}(\cdot)$ amongst all cyclic words over $A$ with Parikh vector $(n_1,n_2,\ldots,n_k)$.
We also show that the same is true for the minimizing arrangement for the semi-regular cyclic continuant $\dot K^{\circlearrowright}(\cdot)$.
As in the non-cyclic case, the main difficulty is to find the maximizing arrangement for the semi-regular continuant, which is not unique in general and may depend on the integers $a_1,\ldots,a_k$ and not just on their relative order.
We show that if a cyclic word $x$ maximizes $\dot K^{\circlearrowright}(\cdot)$ amongst all permutations of $x$, then it verifies a strong combinatorial condition which we call the singular property.
We develop an algorithm for constructing all singular cyclic words having a prescribed Parikh vector.
We study the direct sum of q-matroids by way of their cyclic flats.
Using that the rank function of a q-matroid is fully determined by the cyclic flats and their ranks, we show that the cyclic flats of the direct sum of two q-matroids are exactly all the direct sums of the cyclic flats of the two summands.
This simplifies the rank function of the direct sum significantly.
A q-matroid is called irreducible if it cannot be written as a (non-trivial) direct sum.
We provide a characterization of irreducibility in terms of the cyclic flats and show that every q-matroid can be decomposed into a direct sum of irreducible q-matroids, which are unique up to equivalence.
By examining commensurators of virtually cyclic groups, we show that for each natural number n, any locally finite-by-virtually cyclic group of cardinality aleph_n admits a finite dimensional classifying space with virtually cyclic stabilizers of dimension n+3.
As a corollary, we prove that every elementary amenable group of finite Hirsch length and cardinality aleph_n admits a finite dimensional classifying space with virtually cyclic stabilizers.
We associate a graph $\mathcal{C}_G$ to a non locally cyclic group $G$ (called the non-cyclic graph of $G$) as follows: take $G\backslash Cyc(G)$ as vertex set, where $Cyc(G)=\{x\in G | < x,y> \text{is cyclic for all} y\in G\}$ is called the cyclicizer of $G$, and join two vertices if they do not generate a cyclic subgroup.
For a simple graph $Γ$, $w(Γ)$ denotes the clique number of $Γ$, which is the maximum size (if it exists) of a complete subgraph of $Γ$.
In this paper we characterize groups whose non-cyclic graphs have clique numbers at most 4.
We prove that a non-cyclic group $G$ is solvable whenever $w(\mathcal{C}_G)<31$ and the equality for a non-solvable group $G$ holds if and only if $G/Cyc(G)\cong A_5$ or $S_5$.
We show that various cyclic and cocyclic modules attached to Hopf algebras and Hopf modules are related to each other via Connes' duality isomorphism for the cyclic category.
For a cyclic $\AI$-algebra, a potential recording the structure constants can be defined.
We define an analogous potential for a homotopy cyclic $\AI$-algebra and prove its properties.
On the other hand, we find another different potential for a homotopy cyclic $\AI$-algebra, which is related to the algebraic analogue of generalized holonomy map of Abbaspour, Tradler and Zeinalian.
A notion of cyclic descents on standard Young tableaux (SYT) of rectangular shape was introduced by Rhoades, and extended to certain skew shapes by the last two authors.
The cyclic descent set restricts to the usual descent set when the largest value is ignored, and has the property that the number of SYT of a given shape with a given cyclic descent set $D$ is invariant under cyclic shifts of the entries of $D$.
Following these results, the existence of cyclic descent sets for standard Young tableaux of any skew shape other than a ribbon was conjectured by the authors, and recently proved by Adin, Reiner and Roichman.
Unfortunately, the proof does not provide a natural definition of the cyclic descent set for a specific tableau.
In this paper we explicitly describe cyclic descent sets and resulting generating functions for SYT of (possibly skew) shapes which either have exactly two rows or are near-hooks, i.e., are one cell away from a hook.
Our definition provides a constructive combinatorial proof of the existence of cyclic descent sets for these shapes, and coincides with that of Rhoades for two-row rectangular shapes.
We also show that cyclic descent sets for near-hook shaped tableaux are unique.
A cyclic $n$-gonal surface is a compact Riemann surface $X$ of genus $g\geq 2$ admitting a cyclic group of conformal automorphisms $C$ of order $n$ such that the quotient space $X/C$ has genus 0.
In this paper, we provide an overview of ongoing research into automorphism groups of cyclic $n$-gonal surfaces.
Much of the paper is expository or will appear in forthcoming papers, so proofs are usually omitted.
Numerous explicit examples are presented illustrating the computational methods currently being used to study these surfaces.
Given a point p of the topos of simplicial sets and the corresponding flat covariant functor F from the small category Delta to the category of sets, we determine the extensions of F to the cyclic category.
We show that to each such cyclic structure on a point p of the topos of simplicial sets corresponds a group G(p), that such groups can be noncommutative and that each G(p) is described as the quotient of a left-ordered group by the subgroup generated by a central element.
Moreover for any cyclic set X, the fiber (or geometric realization) of the underlying simplicial set of X at p inherits canonically the structure of a G(p)-space.
This gives a far reaching generalization of the well-known circle action on the geometric realization of cyclic sets.
In this paper, we focus on the enumeration of permutations by number of cyclic occurrence of peaks and valleys.
We find several recurrence relations involving the number of permutations with a prescribed number of cyclic peaks, cyclic valleys, fixed points and cycles.
Several associated permutation statistics and the corresponding generating functions are also studied.
In particular, we establish a connection between cyclic valleys and Pell numbers as well as cyclic peaks and alternating runs.
The paper has a threefold purpose.
The first purpose is to present an explicit description of expanded cyclic codes defined in $\GF(q^m)$.
The proposed explicit construction of expanded generator matrix and expanded parity check matrix maintains the symbol-wise algebraic structure and thus keeps many important original characteristics.
The second purpose of this paper is to identify a class of constant-weight cyclic codes.
Specifically, we show that a well-known class of $q$-ary BCH codes excluding the all-zero codeword are constant-weight cyclic codes.
Moreover, we show this class of codes achieve the Plotkin bound.
The last purpose of the paper is to characterize expanded cyclic codes utilizing the proposed expanded generator matrix and parity check matrix.
We characterize the properties of component codewords of a codeword and particularly identify the precise conditions under which a codeword can be represented by a subbasis.
Our developments reveal an alternative while more general view on the subspace subcodes of Reed-Solomon codes.
With the new insights, we present an improved lower bound on the minimum distance of an expanded cyclic code by exploiting the generalized concatenated structure.
We also show that the fixed-rate binary expanded Reed-Solomon codes are asymptotically "bad", in the sense that the ratio of minimum distance over code length diminishes with code length going to infinity.
It overturns the prevalent conjecture that they are "good" codes and deviates from the ensemble of generalized Reed-Solomon codes which asymptotically achieves the Gilbert-Varshamov bound.
Even though Peltesohn proved that a cyclic (v,3,1)-design exists if and only if $v\equiv 1,3\pmod{6}$ as early as 1939, the problem of determining the spectrum of cyclic (v,k,1)-designs with k>3 is far from being settled, even for k=4.
This paper shows that a cyclic (v,4,1)-design exists if and only if $v\equiv 1,4\pmod{12}$ and $v\not\in\{16,25,28\}$.
Cyclic poset are generalizations of cyclically ordered sets.
In this paper we show that any cyclic poset gives rise to a Frobenius category over any discrete valuation ring R.
The continuous cluster categories of arXiv:1209.1879 are examples of this construction.
If we twist the construction using an admissible automorphism of the cyclic poset, we generate other examples such as the m-cluster category of type A-infinity (m>2).
Let $S$ be a subset of the cyclic group $\Z_n$.
The cyclic Haar graph $H(\Z_n,S)$ is the bipartite graph with color classes $\Z_n^+$ and $\Z_n^-,$ and edges $\{x^+,y^-\},$ where $x,y \in \Z_n$ and $y - x \in S$.
In this paper we give sufficient and necessary conditions for the isomorphism of two connected cyclic Haar graphs of valency 4.
Cyclic codes are among the most important families of codes in coding theory for both theoretical and practical reasons.
Despite their prominence and intensive research on cyclic codes for over a half century, there are still open problems related to cyclic codes.
In this work, we use recent results on the equivalence of cyclic codes to create a more efficient algorithm to partition cyclic codes by equivalence based on cyclotomic cosets.
This algorithm is then implemented to carry out computer searches for both cyclic codes and quasi-cyclic (QC) codes with good parameters.
We also generalize these results to repeated-root cases.
We have found several new linear codes that are cyclic or QC as an application of the new approach, as well as more desirable constructions for linear codes with best known parameters.
With the additional new codes obtained through standard constructions, we have found a total of 14 new linear codes.
The study of permutation automorphism groups of cyclic codes is a central topic in algebraic coding theory.
A cyclic code over $\mathbb{F}_q$ is called irreducible if its check polynomial is irreducible over $\mathbb{F}_q$.
Such a code is standard if its permutation automorphism group is equal to the group generated by the cyclic shift and the Frobenius automorphism, and non-standard otherwise.
In this paper, we give a complete classification of all non-standard non-degenerate irreducible cyclic codes, using the classification of finite simple groups.
Our result shows that, apart from a small number of explicit exceptional families and their descendants under certain secondary constructions, every non-degenerate irreducible cyclic code is standard, and up to four explicit exceptions, every degenerate cyclic code is non-standard.
This classification has several consequences.
First, it yields a general description of non-standard linear recurring sequence subgroups, extending the earlier work of Brison and Nogueira; secondly it establishes the Schmidt-White conjecture for all non-standard irreducible cyclic codes.
Moreover, our results provide strong evidence in support of the conjecture of Berger and Charpin that almost all cyclic codes are standard.
A central result here is the computation of the entire cyclic homology of canonical smooth subalgebras of stable continuous trace C*-algebras having smooth manifolds M as their spectrum.
More precisely, the entire cyclic homology is shown to be canonically isomorphic to the continuous periodic cyclic homology for these algebras.
By an earlier result of the authors, one concludes that the entire cyclic homology of the algebra is canonically isomorphic to the twisted de Rham cohomology of M.
A cyclic coloring of a plane graph $G$ is a coloring of its vertices such that vertices incident with the same face have distinct colors.
The minimum number of colors in a cyclic coloring of a plane graph $G$ is its cyclic chromatic number $χ_c(G)$.
Let $Δ^*(G)$ be the maximum face degree of a graph $G$.
In this note we show that to prove the Cyclic Coloring Conjecture of Borodin from 1984, saying that every connected plane graph $G$ has $χ_c(G) \leq \lfloor \frac{3}{2}Δ^*(G)\rfloor$, it is enough to do it for subdivisions of simple $3$-connected plane graphs.
We have discovered four new different upper bounds on $χ_c(G)$ for graphs $G$ from this restricted family; three bounds of them are tight.
As corollaries, we have shown that the conjecture holds for subdivisions of plane triangulations, simple $3$-connected plane quadrangulations, and simple $3$-connected plane pentagulations with an even maximum face degree, for regular subdivisions of simple $3$-connected plane graphs of maximum degree at least 10, and for subdivisions of simple $3$-connected plane graphs having the maximum face degree large enough in comparison with the number of vertices of their longest paths consisting only of vertices of degree two.
We apply the new orbifold duality transformations to discuss the special case of cyclic coset orbifolds in further detail.
We focus in particular on the case of the interacting cyclic coset orbifolds, whose untwisted sectors are Z_λ(permutation)-invariant g/h coset constructions which are not λcopies of coset constructions.
Because λcopies are not involved, the action of Z_λ(permutation) in the interacting cyclic coset orbifolds can be quite intricate.
The stress tensors and ground state conformal weights of all the sectors of a large class of these orbifolds are given explicitly and special emphasis is placed on the twisted h subalgebras which are generated by the twisted (0,0) operators of these orbifolds.
We also discuss the systematics of twisted (0,0) operators in general coset orbifolds.
We show that the classical Hochschild homology and (periodic and negative) cyclic homology groups are representable in the category of motives with modulus.
We do this by constructing Hochschild homology and (periodic and negative) cyclic homologies for modulus pairs.
We show a modulus version of HKR theorem, that is, there exists an isomorphism between modulus Hochschild homology and modulus Kähler differentials for affine normal crossing modulus pairs.
By using the representability of modulus Hodge sheaves in the category of motives with modulus, we construct an object of the category of motives with modulus which represents modulus Hochschild homology.
Similarly, We compare modulus de Rham cohomology and modulus cyclic homologies and obtain a representability of modulus cyclic homologies.
In this paper we generalize the notion of the comparative index for the pair of Lagrangian subspaces which has fundamental applications in oscillation theory of symplectic difference systems and linear differential Hamiltonian systems.
We introduce cyclic sums $μ_c^{\pm}(Y_1,Y_2,\dots,Y_m),\,m\ge 2$ of the comparative indices for the set of $n-$ dimensional Lagrangian subspaces.
We formulate and prove main properties of the cyclic sums, in particular, we state connections of the cyclic sums with the Kashiwara index.
The main results of the paper connect the cyclic sums of the comparative indices with the number of positive and negative eigenvalues of $mn\times mn$ symmetric matrices defined in terms of the Wronskians $Y_i^T \,J\, Y_j,$ $i,j=1,\dots,m.$ We also present first applications of the cyclic sums of the comparative indices in the oscillation theory of the discrete symplectic systems connecting the number of focal points of their principal solutions with the negative and positive inertia of symmetric matrices.
This paper defines cyclic and minimal derivative descendants (DDs) of an extended cyclic code from the derivative of the Mattson-Solomon polynomials, respectively.
First, it demonstrates that the cyclic DDs are the same extended cyclic code.
It allows us to perform soft-decision decoding for extended cyclic codes based on their cyclic DDs.
Then, it proves that the minimal DDs are equivalent codes.
It also allows us to perform soft-decision decoding based on the minimal DDs with permutations.
Simulation results show that our proposed derivative decoding can be close to the maximum likelihood decoding for certain extended cyclic codes, including some extended BCH codes.
The study of pattern containment and avoidance for linear permutations is a well-established area of enumerative combinatorics.
A cyclic permutation is the set of all rotations of a linear permutation.
Callan initiated the study of permutation avoidance in cyclic permutations and characterized the avoidance classes for all single permutations of length 4.
In particular, we establish a cyclic variant of the Erdos-Szekeres Theorem that any linear permutation of length mn+1 must contain either the increasing pattern of length m+1 or the decreasing pattern of length n+1.
We then derive results about avoidance of multiple patterns of length 4.
We also determine generating functions for the cyclic descent statistic on these classes.
Finally, we end with various open questions and avenues for future research.
Cyclic codes are an important subclass of linear codes and have wide applications in data storage systems, communication systems and consumer electronics.
In this paper, two families of optimal ternary cyclic codes are presented.
The first family of cyclic codes has parameters $[3^m-1, 3^m-1-2m, 4]$ and contains a class of conjectured cyclic codes and several new classes of optimal cyclic codes.
The second family of cyclic codes has parameters $[3^m-1, 3^m-2-2m, 5]$ and contains a number of classes of cyclic codes that are obtained from perfect nonlinear functions over $\fthreem$, where $m>1$ and is a positive integer.
We introduce a notion of {\em cyclic Schur-positivity} for sets of permutations, which naturally extends the classical notion of Schur-positivity, and it involves the existence of a bijection from permutations to standard Young tableaux that preserves the cyclic descent set.
Cyclic Schur-positive sets of permutations are always Schur-positive, but the converse does not hold, as exemplified by inverse descent classes, Knuth classes and conjugacy classes.
In this paper we show that certain classes of permutations invariant under either horizontal or vertical rotation are cyclic Schur-positive.
The proof unveils a new equidistribution phenomenon of descent sets on permutations, provides affirmative solutions to conjectures from [9] and [2], and yields new examples of Schur-positive sets.
We prove that for n>2 there exists a quandle of cyclic type of size n if and only if n is a power of a prime number.
This establishes a conjecture of S.
As a corollary, every finite quandle of cyclic type is an Alexander quandle.
We also prove that finite doubly transitive quandles are of cyclic type.
This establishes a conjecture of H.
For a smooth finite cyclic covering over a projective space of dimension greater than one, we show that the group of automorphisms acts faithfully on the cohomology except for a few cases.
In characteristic zero, we study the equivariant deformation theory and automorphism groups for complex cyclic coverings.
The proof uses the decomposition of the sheaf of differential forms due to Esnault and Viehweg.
In positive characteristics, a lifting criterion of automorphisms reduces the faithfulness problem to characteristic zero.
To apply this criterion, we prove the degeneration of the Hodge-de Rham spectral sequences for a family of smooth finite cyclic coverings, and the infinitesimal Torelli theorem for finite cyclic coverings defined over an arbitrary field.
Neutrino physics is one of the most important topics in particle physics and cosmology.
Despite the many physical properties of neutrinos that are understood theoretically and experimentally, it is known that there are many unsolved problems in this area.
In this study, we suppose that the deformed space-time caused by the gravitational perturbation can play an important role in neutrino oscillations.
We analytically analyzed these effects on the neutrino oscillation and showed that this effect leads to an anomalous cyclic in the neutrino oscillation.
The results clearly indicate that these anomalous cyclics depend on the degree of deformation of space-time.
The role of this anomaly in neutrino oscillation may be important.
There may be a relation between cyclic anomaly and other anomalies of neutrinos such as mass limits, energy limits, oscillation lengths, mixing angles, and speed of neutrinos.
The cyclic anomalies might be detected experimentally.
If these anomalies are confirmed, it will appear that we need to think more about neutrino physics.
We associate a graph $Γ_G$ to a non locally cyclic group $G$ (called the non-cyclic graph of $G$) as follows: take $G\backslash Cyc(G)$ as vertex set, where $Cyc(G)=\{x\in G | \left<x,y\right> \text{is cyclic for all} y\in G\}$, and join two vertices if they do not generate a cyclic subgroup.
We study the properties of this graph and we establish some graph theoretical properties (such as regularity) of this graph in terms of the group ones.
We prove that the clique number of $Γ_G$ is finite if and only if $Γ_G$ has no infinite clique.
We prove that if $G$ is a finite nilpotent group and $H$ is a group with $Γ_G\congΓ_H$ and $|Cyc(G)|=|Cyc(H)|=1$, then $H$ is a finite nilpotent group.
We give some examples of groups $G$ whose non-cyclic graphs are ``unique'', i.e., if $Γ_G\cong Γ_H$ for some group $H$, then $G\cong H$.
In view of these examples, we conjecture that every finite non-abelian simple group has a unique non-cyclic graph.
Also we give some examples of finite non-cyclic groups $G$ with the property that if $Γ_G \cong Γ_H$ for some group $H$, then $|G|=|H|$.
These suggest the question whether the latter property holds for all finite non-cyclic groups.
We determine the permutation groups that arise as the automorphism groups of cyclic combinatorial objects.
As special cases we classify the automorphism groups of cyclic codes.
We also give the permutations by which two cyclic combinatorial objects on $p^m$ elements are equivalent.
In this paper, necessary and sufficient conditions for the reversibility of a cyclic code of arbitrary length over a finite commutative chain ring have been derived.
MDS reversible cyclic codes having length p^s over a finite chain ring with nilpotency index 2 have been characterized and a few examples of MDS reversible cyclic codes have been presented.
Further, it is shown that the torsion codes of a reversible cyclic code over a finite chain ring are reversible.
Also, an example of a non-reversible cyclic code for which all its torsion codes are reversible has been presented to show that the converse of this statement is not true.
The cardinality and Hamming distance of a cyclic code over a finite commutative chain ring have also been determined.
Skew cyclic codes play the same role as cyclic codes in the theory of error-correcting codes for the rank metric.
In this paper, we give descriptions of these codes by root spaces, cyclotomic spaces and idempotent generators.
We prove that the lattice of skew cyclic codes is anti-isomorphic to the lattice of root spaces, study these two lattices and extend the rank-BCH bound on their minimum rank distance to rank-metric versions of the van Lint-Wilson's shift and Hartmann-Tzeng bounds.
Finally, we study skew cyclic codes which are linear over the base field, proving that these codes include all Hamming-metric cyclic codes, giving then a new relation between these codes and rank-metric skew cyclic codes.
The cyclic matching sequenceability of a simple graph $G$, denoted $\mathrm{cms}(G)$, is the largest integer $s$ for which there exists a cyclic ordering of the edges of $G$ so that every set of $s$ consecutive edges forms a matching.
In this paper we consider the minimum cyclic matching sequenceability of $k$-regular graphs.
We completely determine this for $2$-regular graphs, and give bounds for $k \geq 3$.
An $R$-module $M$ is called virtually uniserial if for every finitely generated submodule $0 \neq K \subseteq M$, $K/$Rad$(K)$ is virtually simple.
In this paper, we generalize virtually uniserial modules by dropping the virtually simple condition and replacing it by the cyclic uniform condition.
An $R$-module $M$ is called cyclic-uniform uniserial if $K/$Rad$(K)$ is cyclic and uniform, for every finitely generated submodule $0 \neq K \subseteq M$.
Also, $M$ is said to be cyclic-uniform serial if it is a direct sum of cyclic-uniform uniserial modules.
Several properties of cyclic-uniform (uni)serial modules and rings are given.
Moreover, the structure of Noetherian left cyclic-uniform uniserial rings are characterized.
Finally, we study rings $R$ have the property that every finitely generated $R$-module is cyclic-uniform serial.
Quasi-cyclic codes form an important class of algebraic codes that includes cyclic codes as a special subclass.
This chapter focuses on the algebraic structure of quasi-cyclic codes, first.
Based on these structural properties, some asymptotic results, a few minimum distance bounds and further applications such as the trace representation and characterization of certain subfamilies of quasi-cyclic codes are elaborated.
This survey will appear as a chapter in "A Concise Encyclopedia of Coding Theory" to be published by CRC Press.
We discuss integrable discretizations of 3-dimensional cyclic systems, that is, orthogonal coordinate systems with one family of circular coordinate lines.
In particular, the underlying circle congruences are investigated in detail, and characterized by the existence of a certain flat connection.
Within the developed framework, discrete cyclic systems with a family of discrete flat fronts in hyperbolic space and discrete cyclic systems, where all coordinate surfaces are discrete Dupin cyclides, are investigated.
We introduce the concept of {\it para-Hopf algebroid} and define their cyclic cohomology in the spirit of Connes-Moscovici cyclic cohomology for Hopf algebras.
Para-Hopf algebroids are closely related to, but different from, Hopf algebroids.
Their definition is motivated by attempting to define a cyclic cohomology theory for Hopf algebroids in general. We show that many of Hopf algebraic structures, including the Connes-Moscovici algebra $\mathcal{H}_{FM}$, are para-Hopf algebroids.
A matroid M is cyclically orderable if there is a cyclic permutation of the elements of M such that any r consecutive elements form a basis in M.
An old conjecture of Kajitani, Miyano, and Ueno states that a matroid M is cyclically orderable if and only if for all nonempty subsets X in E(M), |X|/r(M) is less than or equal to |E(M)|/r(M).
In this paper, we verify this conjecture for all paving matroids.
In this paper, a family of $p$-ary cyclic codes whose duals have three zeros are proposed.
The weight distribution of this family of cyclic codes is determined.
It turns out that the proposed cyclic codes have five nonzero weights.
We show that if an operad is at the same time a cosimplicial object such that the respective structure maps are compatible with the operadic composition in a natural way, then one obtains a Gerstenhaber algebra structure on cohomology, and if the operad is cyclic, even that of a BV algebra.
In particular, if a cyclic opposite module over an operad with multiplication is itself a cyclic operad that meets the cosimplicial compatibility conditions, the cohomology of its cyclic dual turns into a BV algebra.
This amounts to conditions for when the cyclic dual of a BV module is endowed with a BV algebra structure, a result we exemplify by looking at classical and less classical (co)homology groups in Hopf algebra theory.
The quotient of a Boolean algebra by a cyclic group is proven to have a symmetric chain decomposition.
This generalizes earlier work of Griggs, Killian and Savage on the case of prime order, giving an explicit construction for any order, prime or composite.
The combinatorial map specifying how to proceed downward in a symmetric chain is shown to be a natural cyclic analogue of the $\mathfrak{sl}_2$ lowering operator in the theory of crystal bases.
Polymatroids can be considered as "fractional matroid" where the rank function is not required to be integer valued.
Many, but not every notion in matroid terminology translates naturally to polymatroids.
Defining cyclic flats of a polymatroid carefully, the characterization by Bonin and de Mier of the ranked lattice of cyclic flats carries over to polymatroids.
The main tool, which might be of independent interest, is a convolution-like method which creates a polymatroid from a ranked lattice and a discrete measure.
Examples show the ease of using the convolution technique.
Generalizing a definition by Kalra \cite{Kalra}, the purpose of this paper is to analyze cyclic frames in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces.
Cyclic   frames form a subclass of the dynamical frames introduced and analyzed in detail by Aldroubi et al. in \cite{ACM} and subsequent papers; they are particularly interesting due to their   attractive properties in the context of erasure problems.
By applying an alternative approach, we are able to shed new light on general dynamical frames as well as cyclic frames.
In particular, we provide a characterization of dynamical frames, which in turn leads to   a characterization of cyclic frames.
The topic of this thesis is the application of distributive laws between comonads to the theory of cyclic homology.
Explicitly, our main aims are: 1) To study how the cyclic homology of associative algebras and of Hopf algebras in the original sense of Connes and Moscovici arises from a distributive law, and to clarify the role of different notions of bimonad in this generalisation. 2) To extend the procedure of twisting the cyclic homology of a unital associative algebra to any duplicial object defined by a distributive law. 3) To study the universality of Bohm and Stefan's approach to constructing duplicial objects, which we do in terms of a 2-categorical generalisation of Hochschild (co)homology. 4) To characterise those categories whose nerve admits a duplicial structure.
We present a Gaussian ensemble of random cyclic matrices on the real field and study their spectral fluctuations.
These cyclic matrices are shown to be pseudo-symmetric with respect to generalized parity.
We calculate the joint probability distribution function of eigenvalues and the spacing distributions analytically and numerically.
For small spacings, the level spacing distribution exhibits either a Gaussian or a linear form.
Furthermore, for the general case of two arbitrary complex eigenvalues, leaving out the spacings among real eigenvalues, and, among complex conjugate pairs, we find that the spacing distribution agrees completely with the Wigner distribution for Poisson process on a plane.
The cyclic matrices occur in a wide variety of physical situations, including disordered linear atomic chains and Ising model in two dimensions.
These exact results are also relevant to two-dimensional statistical mechanics and $ν$-parametrized quantum chromodynamics.
The intersection graph of cyclic subgroups of $G$, denoted by $\mathscr I_c(G)$, is a graph having all the proper cyclic subgroups of $G$ as its vertices and two distinct vertices in $\mathscr I_c(G)$ are adjacent if and only if their intersection is non-trivial. In this paper, we classify the finite groups whose intersection graph of cyclic subgroups is one of totally disconnected, complete, star, path, cycle.
We show that for a given finite group $G$, $girth(\mathscr I_c (G)) \in \{3, \infty\}$.
Moreover, we classify all finite non-cyclic abelian groups whose intersection graph of cyclic subgroups is planar.
Also for any group $G$, we determine the independence number, clique cover number of $\mathscr I_c (G)$ and show that $\mathscr I_c (G)$ is weakly $α$-perfect.
Among the other results, we determine the values of $n$ for which $\mathscr I_c (\mathbb{Z}_n)$ is regular and estimate its domination number.
This note discusses the cyclic cohomology of a left Hopf algebroid ($\times_A$-Hopf algebra) with coefficients in a right module-left comodule, defined using a straightforward generalisation of the original operators given by Connes and Moscovici for Hopf algebras.
Lie-Rinehart homology is a special case of this theory.
A generalisation of cyclic duality that makes sense for arbitrary para-cyclic objects yields a dual homology theory.
The twisted cyclic homology of an associative algebra provides an example of this dual theory that uses coefficients that are not necessarily stable anti Yetter-Drinfel'd modules.
Cyclic codes are the most studied subclass of linear codes and widely used in data storage and communication systems.
Many cyclic codes have optimal parameters or the best parameters known.
They are divided into simple-root cyclic codes and repeated-root cyclic codes.
Although there are a huge number of references on cyclic codes, few of them are on repeated-root cyclic codes.
Hence, repeated-root cyclic codes are rarely studied.
There are a few families of distance-optimal repeated-root binary and $p$-ary cyclic codes for odd prime $p$ in the literature.
However, it is open whether there exists an infinite family of distance-optimal repeated-root cyclic codes over $\bF_q$ for each even $q \geq 4$.
In this paper, three infinite families of distance-optimal repeated-root cyclic codes with minimum distance 3 or 4 are constructed; two other infinite families of repeated-root cyclic codes with minimum distance 3 or 4 are developed; seven infinite families of repeated-root cyclic codes with minimum distance 6 or 8 or 10 are presented; and two infinite families of repeated-root binary cyclic codes with parameters $[2n, k, d \geq (n-1)/\log_2 n]$, where $n=2^m-1$ and $k \geq n$, are constructed.
In addition, 27 repeated-root cyclic codes of length up to $254$ over $\bF_q$ for $q \in \{2, 4, 8\}$ with optimal parameters or best parameters known are obtained in this paper.
The results of this paper show that repeated-root cyclic codes could be very attractive and are worth of further investigation.
Ultra-wideband (UWB) impulse radio (IR) systems are well known for low transmission power, low probability of detection, and overlaying with narrowband (NB) systems.
These merits in fact make UWB signal detection challenging, since several high-power wireless communication systems coexist with UWB signals.
In the literature, cyclic features are exploited for signal detection.
However, the high computational complexity of conventional cyclic feature based detectors burdens the receivers.
In this paper, we propose computationally efficient detectors using the specific cyclic features of UWB signals.
The closed-form relationships between the cyclic features and the system parameters are revealed.
Then, some constant false alarm rate detectors are proposed based on the estimated cyclic autocorrelation functions (CAFs).
The proposed detectors have low complexities compared to the existing ones.
Extensive simulation results indicate that the proposed detectors achieve a good balance between the detection performance and the computational complexity in various scenarios, such as multipath environments, colored noise, and NB interferences.
A family of LRC codes that generalizes the classical construction of Reed-Solomon codes was constructed in a recent paper by I.
Barg (IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, no. 8, 2014; arXiv:1311.3284).
In this paper we focus on the optimal cyclic codes that arise from the general construction.
We study the quotient space obtained by the flip action on the quantum n-tori.
The Hochschild, cyclic and periodic cyclic homology are calculated.
Recently, there has been intensive research on the weight distributions of cyclic codes.
In this paper, we compute the weight distributions of three classes of cyclic codes with Niho exponents.
More specifically, we obtain two classes of binary three-weight and four-weight cyclic codes and a class of nonbinary four-weight cyclic codes.
The weight distributions follow from the determination of value distributions of certain exponential sums.
Several examples are presented to show that some of our codes are optimal and some have the best known parameters.
One of the predictions of the AdS/CFT correspondence is the matching of protected operators between a superconformal field theory and its holographic dual. We review the spectrum of protected operators in quiver gauge theories that flow to superconformal field theories at low energies.
The spectrum is determined by the cyclic homology of an algebra associated to the quiver gauge theory.
Identifying the spectrum of operators with cyclic homology allows us to apply the Hochschild-Kostant-Rosenberg theorem to relate the cyclic homology groups to deRham cohomology groups.
The map from cyclic homology to deRham cohomology can be viewed as a mathematical avatar of the passage from open to closed strings under the AdS/CFT correspondence.
The square $C^{*2}$ of a linear error correcting code $C$ is the linear code spanned by the component-wise products of every pair of (non-necessarily distinct) words in $C$.
Squares of codes have gained attention for several applications mainly in the area of cryptography, and typically in those applications one is concerned about some of the parameters (dimension, minimum distance) of both $C^{*2}$ and $C$.
In this paper, motivated mostly by the study of this problem in the case of linear codes defined over the binary field, squares of cyclic codes are considered.
General results on the minimum distance of the squares of cyclic codes are obtained and constructions of cyclic codes $C$ with relatively large dimension of $C$ and minimum distance of the square $C^{*2}$ are discussed.
In some cases, the constructions lead to codes $C$ such that both $C$ and $C^{*2}$ simultaneously have the largest possible minimum distances for their length and dimensions.
We use the Beilinson $t$-structure on filtered complexes and the Hochschild-Kostant-Rosenberg theorem to construct filtrations on the negative cyclic and periodic cyclic homologies of a scheme $X$ with graded pieces given by the Hodge-completion of the derived de Rham cohomology of $X$.
Such filtrations have previously been constructed by Loday in characteristic zero and by Bhatt-Morrow-Scholze for $p$-complete negative cyclic and periodic cyclic homology in the quasisyntomic case.
In this paper, we derive a maximum principle for a type of elliptic systems and apply it to analyze the Hitchin equation for cyclic Higgs bundles.
We show several domination results on the pullback metric of the (possibly branched) minimal immersion $f$ associated to cyclic Higgs bundles.
Also, we obtain a lower and upper bound of the extrinsic curvature of the image of $f$.
As an application, we give a complete picture for maximal $Sp(4,\mathbb{R})$-representations in the $2g-3$ Gothen components and the Hitchin components.
We determine the periodic cyclic homology of the Iwahori-Hecke algebras $\Hecke_q$, for $q \in \CC^*$ not a ``proper root of unity.'' (In this paper, by a {\em proper root of unity} we shall mean a root of unity other than 1.) Our method is based on a general result on periodic cyclic homology, which states that a ``weakly spectrum preserving'' morphism of finite type algebras induces an isomorphism in periodic cyclic homology.
The concept of a weakly spectrum preserving morphism is defined in this paper, and most of our work is devoted to understanding this class of morphisms.
Results of Kazhdan--Lusztig and Lusztig show that, for the indicated values of $q$, there exists a weakly spectrum preserving morphism $φ_q : \Hecke_q \to J$, to a fixed finite type algebra $J$.
This proves that $φ_q$ induces an isomorphism in periodic cyclic homology and, in particular, that all algebras $\Hecke_q$ have the same periodic cyclic homology, for the indicated values of $q$.
The periodic cyclic homology groups of the algebra $\Hecke_1$ can then be determined directly, using results of Karoubi and Burghelea, because it is the group algebra of an extended affine Weyl group.
In finite-temperature field theory, the cyclic Wilson loop is defined as a rectangular Wilson loop spanning the whole compactified time direction.
In a generic non-abelian gauge theory, we calculate the perturbative expansion of the cyclic Wilson loop up to order g^4.
At this order and after charge renormalization, the cyclic Wilson loop is known to be ultraviolet divergent.
We show that the divergence is not associated with cusps in the contour but is instead due to the contour intersecting itself because of the periodic boundary conditions.
One consequence of this is that the cyclic Wilson loop mixes under renormalization with the correlator of two Polyakov loops.
The resulting renormalization equation is tested up to order g^6 and used to resum the leading logarithms associated with the intersection divergence.
Implications for lattice studies of this operator, which may be relevant for the phenomenology of quarkonium at finite temperature, are discussed.
Inspired by the Landau two-fluid model of superfluidity, we consider a similar multifluid description for cosmology where two normal fluids occur for matter and radiation respectively.
For cyclic cosmology, two dark energy superfluid components turn out to be insufficient but three superfluids can lead to a sensible five-fluid model which in a certain limit becomes indistinguishable from the brane-world cyclic model proposed earlier (Baum and Frampton).
Distinguishing more general five-fluid models from brane-world models for cyclic cosmology could be feasible with more accurate observational data.
A hyperbolic polygon is defined to be cyclic, horocyclic, or equidistant if its vertices lie on a metric circle, horocycle, or a component of the equidistant locus to a hyperbolic geodesic, respectively.
Convex such $n$-gons are parametrized by the subspaces of $(0,\infty)^n$ that contain their side length collections, and area and circumcircle or "collar" radius determine symmetric, smooth functions on these spaces.
We give formulas for and bounds on the derivatives of these functions, and make some observations on their behavior.
Notably, the monotonicity properties of area and circumcircle radius exhibit qualitative differences on the collection of centered vs non-centered cyclic polygons, where a cyclic polygon is "centered" if it contains the center of its circumcircle in its interior.
Cyclic codes with two zeros and their dual codes as a practically and theoretically interesting class of linear codes, have been studied for many years.
However, the weight distributions of cyclic codes are difficult to determine.
From elliptic curves, this paper determines the weight distributions of dual codes of cyclic codes with two zeros for a few more cases.
Usually, it is difficult to determine the weight distribution of an irreducible cyclic code.
In this paper, we discuss the case when an irreducible cyclic code has the maximal number of distinct nonzero weights and give a necessary and sufficient condition.
In this case, we also obtain a divisible property for the weight of a codeword.
Further, we present a necessary and sufficient condition for an irreducible cyclic code with only one nonzero weight.
Finally, we determine the weight distribution of an irreducible cyclic code for some cases.
We use Gersten's generalization of Whitehead's algorithm to determine whether a given finitely generated subgroup of a free group $F$ is elliptic in an elementary cyclic splitting of $F$.
We provide a similar result for all elementary cyclic splittings of a free group of rank two and partial results towards an algorithm for ellipticity in elementary cyclic splittings of $F$ as an HNN-extension.
In the gelation theory it has been implicitly assumed that (I) a cyclic bond is a finite bond that returns to itself; (II) cyclic bonds distribute at random in network structures.
In this paper these two assumptions are reexamined from a new point of view.
The physical soundness of the assumptions is assessed through comparison with experimental observations.
We analyze the relationship between Bott periodicity in topological $K$-theory and the natural periodicity of cyclic homology.
This is a basis for understanding the multiplicativity, in odd dimensions, of a bivariant Chern-Connes character from $K$-theory to cyclic theory.
We prove Kontsevich's cyclic formality conjecture.
A cyclic random walk is a random walk whose transition probabilities/rates can be written as a superposition of the empirical measures of a family of finite cycles.
This identifies a convex set of models.
We discuss the problem of characterization of cyclic random walks in some special cases showing that it is related to several remarkable and classical results.
In particular we introduce the notion of balanced measure and show that a translation invariant random walk on $\mathbb Z^d$ is cyclic if and only if its transition probability is balanced.
The characterization of the extremal elements is obtained using the Carathéodory's Theorem of convex analysis.
We then show that a random walk on a finite set is cyclic if and only if at every vertex the outgoing flux of the transition graph is equal to the ingoing flux.
The extremal elements are characterized by the Birkhoff-Von-Neumann Theorem.
Finally we consider the discrete torus and discuss when the cyclic decomposition can be done using only homotopically trivial cycles or elementary cycles associated to edges and two dimensional faces.
While in one dimension this is equivalent to require some geometric properties of a discrete vector field associated to the transition rates, in two dimension this is not the case.
In particular we give a simple characterization of the polyhedron of the rates admitting a cyclic decomposition with elementary cycles.
The proof is based on a discrete Hodge decomposition, elementary homological algebra and the Helly's Theorem of convex analysis.
Finally we discuss a natural discretization procedure of smooth divergence free continuous vector fields and an application to random walks in random environments.
We give necessary conditions for a two-weight projective cyclic code to be the direct sum of two one-weight irreducible cyclic subcodes of the same dimension, following the work of Wolfmann and Vega.
This confirms Vega's conjecture that all the two-weight cyclic codes of this type are the known ones in the projective case.
It is well known that Heron's theorem provides an explicit formula for the area of a triangle, as a symmetric function of the lengths of its sides.
It has been extended by Brahmagupta to quadrilaterals inscribed in a circle (cyclic quadrilaterals).
A natural problem is trying to further generalize the result to cyclic polygons with a larger number of edges, which, surprisingly, has revealed to be far from simple.
In this paper we investigate such a problem by following a new and elementary approach.
We start from the simple observation that the incircle of a right triangle touches its hypothenuse in a point that splits it into two segments, the product of whose lengths equals the area of the triangle.
From this curious fact we derive in a few lines: an unusual proof of the Pythagoras' theorem, Heron's theorem for right triangles, Heron's theorem for general triangles, and Brahmagupta's theorem for cyclic quadrangles.
This suggests that cutting the edges of a cyclic polygon by means of suitable points should be the "right" working method.
Indeed, following this idea, we obtain an explicit formula for the area of any convex cyclic polygon, as a symmetric function of the segments split on its edges by the incircles of a triangulation.
We also show that such a symmetry can be rediscovered in Heron's and Brahmagupta's results, which consequently represent special cases of the general provided formula.
Relative generalized Hamming weights (RGHWs) of a linear code respect to a linear subcode determine the security of the linear ramp secret sharing scheme based on the code.
They can be used to express the information leakage of the secret when some keepers of shares are corrupted.
Cyclic codes are an interesting type of linear codes and have wide applications in communication and storage systems.
In this paper, we investigate the RGHWs of cyclic codes with two nonzeros respect to any of its irreducible cyclic subcodes.
Applying the method in the paper [arxiv.org/abs/1410.2702], we give two formulae for RGHWs of the cyclic codes.
As applications of the formulae, explicit examples are computed.
Let $A$ be a commutative algebra over the field ${\mathbb F}_2 = {\mathbb Z}/2$.
We show that there is a natural algebra homomorphism $\ell (A) \to HC^-_*(A)$ which is an isomorphism when $A$ is a smooth algebra.
Thus, the functor $\ell$ can be viewed as an approximation of negative cyclic homology and ordinary cyclic homology $HC_*(A)$ is a natural $\ell (A)$-module.
In general, there is a spectral sequence $E^2 = L_*(\ell )(A) \Rightarrow HC_*^- (A)$.
We find associated approximation functors $\ell^+$ and $\ell^{per}$ for ordinary cyclic homology and periodic cyclic homology, and set up their spectral sequences.
Finally, we discuss universality of the approximations.
We prove the property that a function is cyclic (resp., non-cyclic) is not preserved by norm convergence in Dirichlet-type spaces $D_α$, and show how other significant quantities for cyclicity do remain preserved under the limit of convergent sequences in $D_α$, providing a quantitative view of this convergence issue.
We consider structural properties of $\mathcal{L}$-polymatroids, especially those defined on a finite complemented modular lattice $\mathcal{L}$.
We introduce a set of cover-weight axioms and establish a cryptomorphism between these axioms and the rank axioms of an $\mathcal{L}$-polymatroid.
We introduce the notion of a cyclic flat of an $\mathcal{L}$-polymatroid and study properties of its lattice of cyclic flats.
We show that the weighted lattice of cyclic flats of an $\mathcal{L}$-polymatroid $\mathcal{P}$, along with the atomic weights of $\mathcal{P}$, is sufficient to define its rank function on $\mathcal{L}$.
In our main result, we characterize those weighted lattices $(\mathcal{Z},λ)$ such that $\mathcal{Z}\subseteq\mathcal{L}$ is the collection of cyclic flats of an $\mathcal{L}$-polymatroid.
We study cyclic sieving phenomena (CSP) on combinatorial objects from an abstract point of view by considering a rational polyhedral cone determined by the linear equations that define such phenomena.
Each lattice point in the cone corresponds to a non-negative integer matrix which jointly records the statistic and cyclic order distribution associated with the set of objects realizing the CSP.
In particular we consider a universal subcone onto which every CSP matrix linearly projects such that the projection realizes a CSP with the same cyclic orbit structure, but via a universal statistic that has even distribution on the orbits.
Reiner et.al. showed that every cyclic action give rise to a unique polynomial (mod $q^n-1$) complementing the action to a CSP.
We give a necessary and sufficient criterion for the converse to hold.
This characterization allows one to determine if a combinatorial set with a statistic give rise (in principle) to a CSP without having a combinatorial realization of the cyclic action.
We apply the criterion to conjecture a new CSP involving stretched Schur polynomials and prove our conjecture for certain rectangular tableaux.
Finally we study some geometric properties of the CSP cone.
We explicitly determine its half-space description and in the prime order case we determine its extreme rays.
Let $\mathfrak{s}$ $\ltimes$ $\mathfrak{r}$ be a Levi decomposable Lie algebra, with Levi factor $\mathfrak{s}$, and radical $\mathfrak{r}$.
A module $V$ of $\mathfrak{s}$ $\ltimes$ $\mathfrak{r}$ is cyclic indecomposable if it is indecomposable and the quotient module $V /\mathfrak{r}\cdot V$ is a simple $\mathfrak{s}$-module.
A Levi decomposable subalgebra of a semisimple Lie algebra is cyclic wide if the restriction of every simple module of the semisimple Lie algebra to the subalgebra is cyclic indecomposable.
We establish a condition for a regular Levi decomposable subalgebra of a semisimple Lie algebra to be cyclic wide.
Then, in the case of a regular Levi decomposable subalgebra whose radical is an ad-nilpotent subalgebra, we show that the condition is necessary and sufficient for the subalgebra to be cyclic wide.
All Lie algebras, and modules in this article are finite-dimensional, and over the complex numbers.
We construct a number of new spectral sequences for calculating the cyclic cohomology $HC^*_{dg}(A)$ of a differential graded algebra (dga).
With these spectral sequences we prove some results about the low dimensional cyclic cohomology and demonstrate the existence of various maps between $HC^*_{dg}(A)$ and $HH^*_{dg}(A)$.
We also briefly introduce variations on Hochschild and cyclic cohomology of a dga, namely the $n$-th partial Hochschild cohomology and $n$-partial cyclic cohomology.
Finally, we show how these results can be extended naturally to the dg-category setting.
In particular we define the Hochschild and cyclic cohomolgy of dg-categories and show that the spectral sequences we have constructed can be used in this setting as well.
A dg cyclic operad $BVHgraphs$ of hypergraphs is introduced which comes equipped with an explicit quasi-isomorphism $BV\rightarrow BVHgraphs$ from the { cyclic} operad $BV$ of Batalin-Vilkovisky algebras.
A proof that the cohomology of $BVHgraphs$ equals $BV$ occupies most of this paper.
We use this model to construct an explicit quasi-isomorphism $Chains(FFM_2) \rightarrow BVHgraphs$ from the chain operad of the cyclic operad $FFM_2$ of the compactified moduli spaces of genus zero curves with marked framed points to the dg cyclic operad $BVHgraphs$ which, combined with the main result mentioned above, gives a new proof of the cyclic formality of $FFM_2$.
Let $S_1, \cdots, S_N$ simple finite-dimensional modules of a quantum affine algebra.
We prove that if $S_i\otimes S_j$ is cyclic for any $i < j$ (i.e. generated by the tensor product of the highest weight vectors), then $S_1\otimes \cdots \otimes S_N$ is cyclic.
The proof is based on the study of $R$-matrices.
We introduce a formula for determining the number of codewords of weight 2 in cyclic codes and provide results related to the count of codewords with weight 3.
Additionally, we establish a recursive relationship for binary cyclic codes that connects their weight distribution to the number of solutions of associated systems of polynomial equations.
This relationship allows for the computation of weight distributions from known solutions of systems of diagonal equations and vice versa, offering a new insight into the structure and properties of binary cyclic codes.
Cyclic orbit codes are constant dimension subspace codes that arise as the orbit of a cyclic subgroup of the general linear group acting on subspaces in the given ambient space.
With the aid of the largest subfield over which the given subspace is a vector space, the cardinality of the orbit code can be determined, and estimates for its distance can be found.
This subfield is closely related to the stabilizer of the generating subspace.
Finally, with a linkage construction larger, and longer, constant dimension codes can be derived from cyclic orbit codes without compromising the distance.
Cyclic lattices and ideal lattices were introduced by Micciancio in \cite{D2}, Lyubashevsky and Micciancio in \cite{L1} respectively, which play an efficient role in Ajtai's construction of a collision resistant Hash function (see \cite{M1} and \cite{M2}) and in Gentry's construction of fully homomorphic encryption (see \cite{G}).
Let $R=Z[x]/\langle φ(x)\rangle$ be a quotient ring of the integer coefficients polynomials ring, Lyubashevsky and Micciancio regarded an ideal lattice as the correspondence of an ideal of $R$, but they neither explain how to extend this definition to whole Euclidean space $\mathbb{R}^n$, nor exhibit the relationship of cyclic lattices and ideal lattices.
In this paper, we regard the cyclic lattices and ideal lattices as the correspondences of finitely generated $R$-modules, so that we may show that ideal lattices are actually a special subclass of cyclic lattices, namely, cyclic integer lattices.
In fact, there is a one to one correspondence between cyclic lattices in $\mathbb{R}^n$ and finitely generated $R$-modules (see Theorem \ref{th4} below).
On the other hand, since $R$ is a Noether ring, each ideal of $R$ is a finitely generated $R$-module, so it is natural and reasonable to regard ideal lattices as a special subclass of cyclic lattices (see corollary \ref{co3.4} below).
It is worth noting that we use more general rotation matrix here, so our definition and results on cyclic lattices and ideal lattices are more general forms.
As application, we provide cyclic lattice with an explicit and countable upper bound for the smoothing parameter (see Theorem \ref{th5} below).
It is an open problem that is the shortest vector problem on cyclic lattice NP-hard?
Our results may be viewed as a substantial progress in this direction.
In this paper we relate the deformation theory of Ginzburg Calabi-Yau algebras to negative cyclic homology.
We do this by exhibiting a DG-Lie algebra that controls this deformation theory and whose homology is negative cyclic homology.
We show that the bracket induced on negative cyclic homology coincides with Menichi's string topology bracket.
We show in addition that the obstructions against deforming Calabi-Yau algebras are annihilated by the map to periodic cyclic homology.
In the commutative we show that our DG-Lie algebra is homotopy equivalent to $(T^{\operatorname{poly}}[[u]],-u \operatorname{div})$.
In this article, we introduce and study the concept of the exponent of a cyclic code over a finite field $\mathbb{F}_q.$ We give a relation between the exponent of a cyclic code and its dual code.
Finally, we introduce and determine the exponent distribution of the cyclic code.
For any strong smash product algebra $A\#_{_R}B$ of two algebras $A$ and $B$ with a bijective morphism $R$ mapping from $B\ot A$ to $A\ot B$, we construct a cylindrical module $A\natural B$ whose diagonal cyclic module $Δ_{\bullet}(A\natural B)$ is graphically proven to be isomorphic to $C_{\bullet}(A\#_{_R}B)$ the cyclic module of the algebra.
A spectral sequence is established to converge to the cyclic homology of $A\#_{_R}B$.
Examples are provided to show how our results work.
Particularly, the cyclic homology of the Pareigis' Hopf algebra is obtained in the way.
The notion of descent set, for permutations as well as for standard Young tableaux (SYT), is classical. Cellini introduced a natural notion of {\em cyclic descent set} for permutations, and Rhoades introduced such a notion for SYT --- but only for rectangular shapes.
In this work we define {\em cyclic extensions} of descent sets in a general context, and prove existence and essential uniqueness for SYT of almost all shapes.
The proof applies nonnegativity properties of Postnikov's toric Schur polynomials, providing a new interpretation of certain Gromov-Witten invariants.
Acyclic and cyclic orientations of an undirected graph have been widely studied for their importance: an orientation is acyclic if it assigns a direction to each edge so as to obtain a directed acyclic graph (DAG) with the same vertex set; it is cyclic otherwise.
As far as we know, only the enumeration of acyclic orientations has been addressed in the literature.
In this paper, we pose the problem of efficiently enumerating all the \emph{cyclic} orientations of an undirected connected graph with $n$ vertices and $m$ edges, observing that it cannot be solved using algorithmic techniques previously employed for enumerating acyclic orientations.We show that the problem is of independent interest from both combinatorial and algorithmic points of view, and that each cyclic orientation can be listed with $\tilde{O}(m)$ delay time.
Space usage is $O(m)$ with an additional setup cost of $O(n^2)$ time before the enumeration begins, or $O(mn)$ with a setup cost of $\tilde{O}(m)$ time.
Let V be a complete discrete valuation ring with uniformiser p.
We introduce an invariant of Banach V-algebras called local cyclic homology.
This invariant is related to analytic cyclic homology for complete, bornologically torsionfree V-algebras.
It is shown that local cyclic homology only depends on the reduction mod p of a Banach V-algebra and that it is homotopy invariant, matricially stable, and excisive.
This article initiates a geometric study of the automorphism groups of general graph products of groups, and investigates the algebraic and geometric structure of automorphism groups of cyclic product of groups.
For a cyclic product of at least five groups, we show that the action of the cyclic product on its Davis complex extends to an action of the whole automorphism group.
This action allows us to completely compute the automorphism group and to derive several of its properties: Tits Alternative, acylindrical hyperbolicity, lack of property (T).
Given a group $G = H_1 \ast_A H_2$ which is the free product of two finitely generated groups $H_1$ and $H_2$ with amalgamation over a cyclic subgroup $A$ which is malnormal in $G$, we study relations between the structure of its subgroups and the structure of the group $G$ itself.
Firstly, we show that if $H_1$ and $H_2$ are 3-free products of cyclics of rank $\ge 3$ then $G$ is also a 3-free product of cyclics.
Secondly, we prove that if $H_1$ and $H_2$ are 4-free products of cyclics of rank $\ge 4$ then every 4-generated subgroup of $G$ is a free product of $\le 4$ cyclics or a 1-relator quotient of a free product of four cyclic groups.
Here a group is called an $n$-free product of cyclics if every $n$-generated subgroup is a free product of $\le n$ cyclic groups.
These results are based on ubiquitous applications of the Nielsen method for amalgamated free products which we recall carefully.
Lastly, given an infinite, finitely presented group which is not free, but all of its infinite index subgroups are free, a well-known conjecture says that it is isomorphic to a surface group.
We revisit and elaborate on predominantly group theoretic proofs of this conjecture for cyclically amalgamated products as above, as well as for certain HNN extensions.
We propose novel fast algorithms for optimal transport (OT) utilizing a cyclic symmetry structure of input data.
Such OT with cyclic symmetry appears universally in various real-world examples: image processing, urban planning, and graph processing.
Our main idea is to reduce OT to a small optimization problem that has significantly fewer variables by utilizing cyclic symmetry and various optimization techniques.
On the basis of this reduction, our algorithms solve the small optimization problem instead of the original OT.
As a result, our algorithms obtain the optimal solution and the objective function value of the original OT faster than solving the original OT directly.
In this paper, our focus is on two crucial OT formulations: the linear programming OT (LOT) and the strongly convex-regularized OT, which includes the well-known entropy-regularized OT (EROT).
Experiments show the effectiveness of our algorithms for LOT and EROT in synthetic/real-world data that has a strict/approximate cyclic symmetry structure.
Through theoretical and experimental results, this paper successfully introduces the concept of symmetry into the OT research field for the first time.
Tărnăuceanu described the finite groups $G$ having exactly $|G|-1$ cyclic subgroups.
In "Finite Groups with a Prescribed Number of Cyclic Subgroups,", we used elementary methods to completely characterize those finite groups $G$ having exactly $|G|-Δ$ cyclic subgroups for $Δ=2, 3, 4$ and $5$.
In this paper, we prove that for any $Δ>0$ if $G$ has exactly $|G|-Δ$ cyclic subgroups, then $|G|\le 8Δ$ and therefore the number of such $G$ is finite.
We then use the computer program GAP to find all $G$ with exactly $|G|-Δ$ cyclic subgroups for $Δ=1,\ldots,32$.
Cyclic polymers display unique physical behaviors in comparison to their linear counterparts.
Theoretical, computational and experimental studies have revealed that some of their distinctive properties are also observed in charged variants of cyclic polymers, known as cyclic polyelectrolytes (PEs), especially in terms of their structural responses to variations in the strength of electrostatic interactions.
In this study, we investigate the impact of cyclic topology on the conformations of PE chains in dilute good solvent using scaling analysis and coarse-grained bead-spring molecular dynamics simulations.
Our observations indicate that, in contrast to linear PE chains, cyclic topology results in more compact conformations at low and intermediate Bjerrum lengths.
Moreover, two structural metrics, asphericity and prolateness, which quantify deviations from spherical and flat molecular shapes, exhibit non-monotonic behaviors for cyclic PEs.
This stands in contrast to linear PEs, where these shape characteristics exhibit a monotonic trend with increasing Bjerrum length.
A feasible analytical theory, developed to account for ionic distributions around cyclic PE chains, suggests that the fundamental difference between linear and cyclic chain conformations may be attributed to topological effects influencing long-range electrostatic interactions.
A cyclic subgroup graph of a group $G$ is a graph whose vertices are cyclic subgroups of $G$ and two distinct vertices $H_1$ and $H_2$ are adjacent if $H_1\leq H_2$, and there is no subgroup $K$ such that $H_1<K<H_2$.
M.Tărnăuceanu gave the formula to count the number of edges of these graphs.
In this paper, we explore various properties of these graphs.
A cyclic cover of the complex projective line branched at four appropriate points has a natural structure of a square-tiled surface.
We describe the combinatorics of such a square-tiled surface, the geometry of the corresponding Teichmüller curve, and compute the Lyapunov exponents of the determinant bundle over the Teichmüller curve with respect to the geodesic flow.
This paper includes a new example (announced by G.
Matheus in \cite{Forni:Matheus}) of a Teichmüller curve of a square-tiled cyclic cover in a stratum of Abelian differentials in genus four with a maximally degenerate Kontsevich--Zorich spectrum (the only known example found previously by Forni in genus three also corresponds to a square-tiled cyclic cover \cite{ForniSurvey}).
We present several new examples of Teichmüller curves in strata of holomorphic and meromorphic quadratic differentials with maximally degenerate Kontsevich--Zorich spectrum.
Presumably, these examples cover all possible Teichmüller curves with maximally degenerate spectrum.
We prove that this is indeed the case within the class of square-tiled cyclic covers.
The concept of the cyclic averages are introduced for a regular polygon $P_n$ and a Platonic solid $T_n$.
It is shown that cyclic averages of equal powers are the same for various $P_n(T_n)$, but their number is characteristic of $P_n(T_n)$.
Given the definition of a circle (sphere) by the vertices of $P_n(T_n)$ and on the base of the cyclic averages are established the common metrical relations of $P_n(T_n)$.
In this note we extend the cyclic homology functor, and in particular the periodic cyclic homology, to the category of DG (= differential graded) coalgebras.
We are partly motivated by the question of products and coproducts in the cyclic homology of algebras, pioneered by A.Connes.
As an application we show how one can start from the classical shuffle map in homological algebra and algebraic topology, interpreted by Husemoller, Moore and Stasheff as a morphism of DG coalgebras, and build a theory of products and coproducts in periodic and negative cyclic homology.
One of the key ingredients is the idea of X-complex due to Cuntz and Quillen, suitably extended to DG colagebras.
Professor Cunsheng Ding gave cyclotomic constructions of cyclic codes with length being the product of two primes.
In this paper, we study the cyclic codes of length $n=2^e$ and dimension $k=2^{e-1}$.
Clearly, Ding's construction is not hold in this place.
We describe two new types of generalized cyclotomy of order two, which are different from Ding's.
Furthermore, we study two classes of cyclic codes of length $n$ and dimension $k$.
We get the enumeration of these cyclic codes.
What's more, all of the codes from our construction are among the best cyclic codes.
Furthermore, we study the hull of cyclic codes of length $n$ over $\mathbb{F}_q$.
We obtain the range of $\ell=\dim({\rm Hull}(C))$.
We construct and enumerate cyclic codes of length $n$ having hull of given dimension.
We give a polynomial representation for additive cyclic codes over $\mathbb{F}_{p^2}$.
This representation will be applied to uniquely present each additive cyclic code by at most two generator polynomials.
We determine the generator polynomials of all different additive cyclic codes.
A minimum distance lower bound for additive cyclic codes will also be provided using linear cyclic codes over $\mathbb{F}_p$.
We classify all the symplectic self-dual, self-orthogonal, and nearly self-orthogonal additive cyclic codes over $\mathbb{F}_{p^2}$.
Finally, we present ten record-breaking binary quantum codes after applying a quantum construction to self-orthogonal and nearly self-orthogonal additive cyclic codes over $\mathbb{F}_{4}$.
We define nonassociative cyclic extensions of degree m of both fields and central simple algebras over fields.
If a suitable field contains a primitive mth (resp., qth) root of unity, we show that suitable nonassociative generalized cyclic division algebras yield nonassociative cyclic extensions of degree m (resp., qs).
Some of Amitsur's classical results on non-commutative associative cyclic extensions of both fields and central simple algebras are obtained as special cases.
Dark energy in a brane world reconciles an infinitely cyclic cosmology with the second law of thermodynamics.
At turnaround one causal patch with no matter and vanishing entropy is retained for the contraction.
We show that cyclic products of projections onto convex subsets of Hadamard spaces can behave in a more complicated way than in Hilbert spaces, resolving a problem formulated by Miroslav Bačák.
Namely, we construct an example of convex subsets in a Hadamard space such that the corresponding cyclic product of projections is not asymptotically regular.
The simplicial endofunctor induced by a comonad in some category may underly a cyclic object in its category of endofunctors.
The cyclic symmetry is then given by a sequence of natural transformations.
We write down the commutation relations the first cyclic operator has to satisfy with the data of the comonad.
If we add a version of quantum Yang Baxter relation and another relation we actually get a sufficient condition for constructing a sequence of higher cyclic operators in a canonical fashion.
A degenerate case of this construction comes from so-called trivial symmetry of an additive comonad.
We also consider weaker versions for paracyclic objects as well as some connections to the subject of distributive laws.
We describe a geometric theory classified by Connes-Consani's epicylic topos and two related theories respectively classified by the cyclic topos and by the topos $[{\mathbb N}^{\ast}, \mathbf{Set}]$.
The increasing use of polymer composites in industry asks for the creation of better, faster and cost-effective methods to detect the damage state of such materials.
This work presents the investigation of the phase decay , $ΔΦ$, as a new parameter to characterise crack growth in composites materials utilising an experimental framework of High Frequency Fatigue Testing (HFFT), a framework where the excitation occurs at vibration resonance.
The proposed methodology empirically relates the crack growth measurements, from interrupted testing, with the structural phase decay response, distinctive of material strength degradation
This work proposes a parametric probabilistic approach to model damage accumulation using the double linear damage rule (DLDR) considering the existence of limited experimental fatigue data.
A probabilistic version of DLDR is developed in which the joint distribution of the knee-point coordinates is obtained as a function of the joint distribution of the DLDR model input parameters.
Considering information extracted from experiments containing a limited number of data points, an uncertainty quantification framework based on the Maximum Entropy Principle and Monte Carlo simulations is proposed to determine the distribution of fatigue life.
The proposed approach is validated using fatigue life experiments available in the literature.
We present a new theoretical and numerical phase field-based formulation for predicting hydrogen-assisted fatigue.
The coupled deformation-diffusion-damage model presented enables predicting fatigue crack nucleation and growth for arbitrary loading patterns and specimen geometries.
The role of hydrogen in increasing fatigue crack growth rates and decreasing the number of cycles to failure is investigated.
Our numerical experiments enable mapping the three loading frequency regimes and naturally recover Paris law behaviour for various hydrogen concentrations.
In addition, Virtual S-N curves are obtained for both notched and smooth samples, exhibiting a good agreement with experiments.
In the paper we present an isothermal model for describing damage and fatigue by the use of the Ginzburg-Landau (G-L) equation.
Fatigue produces progressive damage, which is related with a variation of the internal structure of the material. The G-L equation studies the evolution of the order parameter, which describes the constitutive arrangement of the system and, in this framework, the evolution of damage.
The thermodynamic coherence of the model is proved.
In the last part of the work, we extend the results of the paper to a non-isothermal system, where fatigue contains thermal effects, which increase the damage of materials.
This paper developed a fatigue-driven residual strength model considering the effects of low-velocity impact (LVI) damage and stress ratio.
New fatigue failure criteria based on fatigue-driven residual strength concept and fatigue progressive damage model were developed to simulate fatigue damage growth and predict fatigue life for plain-weave composite laminates with LVI damage.
To validate the proposed model, LVI tests of plain-weave glass fibre reinforced polymer 3238A/EW250F laminates were conducted, followed by post-impact constant amplitude tension-tension, compression-compression fatigue tests and multi-step fatigue tests.
Experimental results indicate that the LVI damage degrades fatigue strength of plain-weave glass fibre composite laminate drastically.
The load history also plays an important role on the fatigue accumulation damage of post-impact laminates.
The new fatigue progressive damage model achieves a good agreement with fatigue life of post-impact laminates and is able to capture the load sequence effect, opening a new avenue to predict fatigue failure of composite laminates.
We present an experimental and theoretical study of the fatigue failure of asphalt under cyclic compression.
Varying the load amplitude, experiments reveal a finite fatigue limit below which the specimen does not break, while approaching the tensile strength of the material a rapid failure occurs.
In the intermediate load range, the lifetime decreases with the load as a power law.
We introduce two novel theoretical approaches, namely, a fiber bundle model and a fuse model, and show that both capture the major microscopic mechanisms of the fatigue failure of asphalt, providing an excellent agreement with the experimental findings.
Model calculations show that the competition of damage accumulation and healing of microcracks gives rise to novel scaling laws for fatigue failure.
Extensive monitoring comes at a prohibitive cost, limiting Predictive Maintenance strategies for vehicle fleets.
This paper presents a measurement-based virtual sensing technique where local strain gauges are only required for few reference vehicles, while the remaining fleet relies exclusively on accelerometers.
The scattering transform is used to perform feature extraction, while principal component analysis provides a reduced, low dimensional data representation.
This enables direct fatigue damage regression, parameterized from unlabeled usage data.
Identification measurements allow for a physical interpretation of the reduced representation.
The approach is demonstrated using experimental data from a sensor equipped eBike, which is made publicly available.
The work deals with the fatigue lifetime estimation of Short Fiber Reinforced Thermoplastics (SFRP), with a focus on conjugated effects of thermal aging.
Two materials containing 35% (V35) and 50% (V50) weight ratio of short glass fibers were aged for 500h at 200{\textdegree}C in air and compared to the same materials in a Dry-As-Molded (DAM) state.
Monotonic and fatigue tests were performed in samples machined out of injected plates and cut along three different orientations to the injection one (0, 45, 90{\textdegree}) in order to capture the anisotropy of the skin-core microstructure, classical in injected SFRP.
Monotonic tensile tests evidenced the stiffening and embrittlement of the Polyamide matrix reported in the literature, nevertheless with an acuity depending on the matrix ratio and fiber orientation.
Stress-controlled fatigue tests were performed at constant amplitude, frequency (10Hz), temperature (200{\textdegree}C) and stress ratio R=0.1.
The fatigue curves of V35 are more affected by aging than those of the V50 material. The combined results from the mean strain evolutions and SEM observations confirmed that the initiation approach for fatigue lifetime estimation was still valid in aged composites.
Several fatigue criteria, among the most recently reported in the literature, were evaluated from this database.
The effect of aging on the cyclic evolution of the different Fatigue Indicator Parameters (FIP) involved in the criteria was analyzed preliminarily.
For the present fatigue conditions, the best criteria for unaged materials (i.e cyclic creep energy-based ones) were shown to still be the best for aged materials.
Finally, the ability to predict fatigue lifetime for aged composites from the identification of the fatigue criterion in the unaged state was evaluated.
Repetitive loading of bone is associated with microdamage accumulation and material property degradation that may ultimately result in fatigue fracture.
Our previous work used continuum damage mechanics (CDM)-based finite element (FE) modeling to predict stiffness loss and fatigue failure in whole bone; however, this model did not account for inter-specimen variability in fatigue behaviour and multiaxial loading effects, which limited its applied efficacy.
In this study, we refined the CDM-based FE model to predict experimental fatigue-life measurements from 21 whole rabbit tibiae subjected to cyclic axial compression with different magnitudes of superposed torsion.
Machine learning (ML) methods were used to predict damage parameters from initial, undamaged, conditions, which were then used to predicted stiffness degradation and fatigue failure with the CDM-based FE modeling pipeline.
Regression analysis was used to compare CDM-based FE fatigue-life predictions with experimental measurements.
A random forest ML model predicted specimen-specific damage parameters with high accuracy (R2 = 0.85) and the CDM-based FE models demonstrated remarkable predictive capability, explaining up to 91% of the variance in fatigue-life measurements.
Stiffness degradation profiles also followed a similar trend to experimental measurements; however, this agreement worsened with the level of superposed torsion suggesting additional refinements to the model may be necessary.
These findings demonstrate the efficacy of integrating ML with CDM-based FE modeling to predict fatigue life and stiffness degradation.
The observed agreement with experimental measurements suggests the modeling framework may provide valuable information regarding the mechanisms of fatigue fracture in whole bone
We extend the model-free data-driven paradigm for rate-independent fracture mechanics proposed in Carrara et al. (2020), Data-driven Fracture Mechanics, Comp.
Eng., 372 to rate-dependent fracture and sub-critical fatigue.
The problem is formulated by combining the balance governing equations stemming from variational principles with a set of data points that encodes the fracture constitutive behavior of the material. The solution is found as the data point that best satisfies the meta-stability condition as given by the variational procedure and following a distance minimization approach based on closest-point-projection.
The approach is tested on different setups adopting different types of rate-dependent fracture and fatigue models affected or not by white noise.
A new phenomenological technique for using constant amplitude loading data to predict fatigue life from a variable amplitude strain history is presented.
A critical feature of this reversal-by-reversal model is that the damage accumulation is inherently non-linear.
The damage for a reversal in the variable amplitude loading history is predicted by approximating that the accumulated damage comes from a constant amplitude loading that has the strain range of the particular variable amplitude reversal. A key feature of this approach is that overloads at the beginning of the strain history have a more substantial impact on the total lifetime than overloads applied toward the end of the cycle life.
This technique effectively incorporates the strain history in the damage prediction and has the advantage over other methods in that there are no fitting parameters that require substantial experimental data.
The model presented here is validated using experimental variable amplitude fatigue data for three different metals.
The broad application of polymer composites in engineering demands the deep understanding of the main damage mechanisms under realistic loading conditions and the development of proper physics-based models.
Towards this goal, this study presents a comprehensive characterization of the main damage mechanisms in a selection of notched composite structures under multiaxial fatigue loading.
Thanks to a synergistic combination of X-ray micro-computed tomography ($μ$-CT) and Digital Image Correlation (DIC), the main failure modes are identified while the crack volume associated to each mechanism is characterized.
This study provides unprecedented quantitative data for the development and validation of computational models to capture the fatigue behavior of polymer composite structures.
Lifecycle assessment of wind turbines is essential to improve their design and to optimum maintenance plans for preventing failures during the design life.
A critical element of wind turbines is the composite blade due to uncertain cyclic wind loads with relatively high frequency and amplitude in offshore environments.
It is critical to detect the wind fatigue damage evolution in composite blades before they fail catastrophically and destroy the entire wind turbines.
This study presents a methodology for analysing the fatigue failure probability of a wind turbine composite blade by using monitoring stochastic deterioration modelling.
On the basis of 5 minutes mean wind speed measurements, the internal stresses can be accurately obtained from finite element analysis, and failure probabilities are predicted by stochastic gamma process fatigue damage model in design service life.
A numerical example of a wind turbine composite blade is investigated to show the applicability of the proposed model.
The results show that the stochastic fatigue damage model can give reliable results for time-dependent reliability analysis for composite blades of wind turbines.
Motivated by fatigue damage models, this paper addresses optimal control problems governed by a non-smooth system featuring two non-differentiable mappings.
This consists of a coupling between a doubly non-smooth history-dependent evolution and an elliptic PDE.
After proving the directional differentiability of the associated solution mapping, an optimality system which is stronger than the one obtained by classical smoothening procedures is derived.
If one of the non-differentiable mappings becomes smooth, the optimality conditions are of strong stationary type, i.e., equivalent to the primal necessary optimality condition.
Guidance relating to the safe distance within which overhead conductors (OHCs) should not be built with respect to a wind turbine, and vice versa, varies from country to country.
In the United Kingdom the recommendation is that OHCs are not installed within three rotor diameters (3D) of wind turbines due to concerns over wake-induced fatigue.
To assess the physical basis for this recommendation, wind-tunnel experiments were conducted using a scaled wind turbine placed upstream of an instrumented conductor, in conditions representative of forested terrain.
The conductor was equipped with distributed fibre-optic strain sensing based on Rayleigh backscattering, providing spatially resolved measurements at 2.6 mm resolution.
Three conductor heights and four turbine-conductor spacings were tested, together with a no-turbine baseline, while maintaining a constant incident wind speed of 7 m/s.
The results identify a critical region near the clamp where mean strain is maximised.
Neither mean nor fluctuating strain at this location increased substantially due to the presence of the turbine wake.
Strain fluctuations were dominated by aeolian vibration, with the wake increasing vibration amplitude whilst reducing its characteristic frequency.
Rainflow counting fatigue analysis shows that damage accumulation depends strongly on conductor height.
While fatigue damage rates increase when the conductor is fully immersed in the wake, reduced damage rates are observed for lower heights and closer spacings.
These results suggest that, under forested atmospheric conditions, conductor-turbine separations smaller than the current 3D guidance may be feasible provided the conductor is not fully immersed in the turbine wake.
This study is concerned with the estimation of long-term fatigue damage for a floating offshore wind turbine.
With the ultimate goal of efficient evaluation of fatigue limit states for floating offshore wind turbine systems, a detailed computational framework is introduced and used to develop a surrogate model using Gaussian process regression.
The surrogate model, at first, relies only on a small subset of representative sea states and, then, is supplemented by the evaluation of additional sea states that leads to efficient convergence and accurate prediction of fatigue damage.
A 5-MW offshore wind turbine supported by a semi-submersible floating platform is selected to demonstrate the proposed framework.
The fore-aft bending moment at the turbine tower base and the fairlead tension in the windward mooring line are used for evaluation.
Metocean data provide information on joint statistics of the wind and wave along with their relative likelihoods for the installation site in the Mediterranean Sea, near the coast of Sicily. \textcolor{black}{A coupled frequency-domain model} provides needed power spectra for the desired response processes.
The proposed approach offers an efficient and accurate alternative to the exhaustive evaluation of a larger number of sea states and, as such, avoids excessive response simulations.
Hydro-generating units (HGUs) play a crucial role in integrating intermittent renewable energy sources into the power grid due to their flexible operational capabilities.
This evolving role has led to an increase in transient events, such as startups, which impose significant stresses on turbines, leading to increased turbine fatigue and a reduced operational lifespan.
Consequently, optimizing startup sequences to minimize stresses is vital for hydropower utilities.
However, this task is challenging, as stress measurements on prototypes can be expensive and time-consuming.
To tackle this challenge, we propose an innovative automated approach to optimize the startup parameters of HGUs with a limited budget of measured startup sequences.
Our method combines active learning and black-box optimization techniques, utilizing virtual strain sensors and dynamic simulations of HGUs.
This approach was tested in real-time during an on-site measurement campaign on an instrumented Francis turbine prototype.
The results demonstrate that our algorithm successfully identified an optimal startup sequence using only seven measured sequences.
It achieves a remarkable 42% reduction in the maximum strain cycle amplitude compared to the standard startup sequence.
This study paves the way for more efficient HGU startup optimization, potentially extending their operational lifespans.
We study the existence of quasistatic evolutions for a family of gradient damage models which take into account fatigue, that is the process of weakening in a material due to repeated applied loads.
The main feature of these models is the fact that damage is favoured in regions where the cumulation of the elastic strain (or other relevant variables, depend on the model) is higher.
To prove the existence of a quasistatic evolution, we follow a vanishing viscosity approach based on two steps: we first let the time-step $τ$ of the time-discretisation and later the viscosity parameter $ε$ go to zero.
As $τ\to 0$, we find $ε$-approximate viscous evolutions; then, as $ε\to 0$, we find a rescaled approximate evolution satisfying an energy-dissipation balance.
Entanglement of polymer chains is ubiquitous in elastomers, gels, and biological tissues.
While the effects of chain entanglement on elasticity and viscoelasticity of polymer networks have been intensively studied, it remains elusive how chain entanglement affects fracture and fatigue of polymer networks.
In this paper, using polyacrylamide hydrogels as a model material, we systematically compare fracture toughness and fatigue threshold of polymer networks with various levels of chain entanglement.
We find that the fracture toughness and fatigue threshold of an unentangled polymer network are almost the same, although the unentangled polymer network still contains non-ideal features including topological defects (i.e., dangling chains and cyclic loops) and structural heterogeneity (i.e., non-uniform chain lengths and non-uniform functionalities).
In contrast, the fracture toughness of an entangled polymer network can be over ten times (up to 16 times) higher than its fatigue threshold, indicating substantial toughness enhancement due to chain entanglement.
Different from the conventional toughness enhancement due to bulk dissipation of polymer networks, the toughness enhancement by chain entanglement requires low stress-stretch hysteresis (<10%) of the bulk entangled polymer networks.
We attribute the toughness enhancement in entangled polymer networks to a new dissipation mechanism, near-crack dissipation, which is possibly induced by pull-out of chains and delocalized damage of chains around the crack tip.
Driving events, such as maneuvers at slow speed and turns, are important for durability assessments of vehicle components.
By counting the number of driving events, one can estimate the fatigue damage caused by the same kind of events.
Through knowledge of the distribution of driving events for a group of customers, the vehicles producers can tailor the design, of vehicles, for the group.
In this article, we propose an algorithm that can be applied on-board a vehicle to online estimate the expected number of driving events occurring, and thus be used to estimate the distribution of driving events for a certain group of customers.
Since the driving events are not observed directly, the algorithm uses a hidden Markov model to extract the events.
The parameters of the HMM are estimated using an online EM algorithm.
The introduction of the online EM is crucial for practical usage, on-board vehicles, due to that its complexity of an iteration is fixed.
Typically, the EM algorithm is used to find the, fixed, parameters that maximizes the likelihood.
By introducing a fixed forgetting factor in the online EM, an adaptive algorithm is acquired.
This is important in practice since the driving conditions changes over time and a single trip can contain different road types such as city and highway, making the assumption of fixed parameters unrealistic.
Finally, we also derive a method to online compute the expected damage.
The two years experience with Active Metal Casting flat bonds shows that this technology is suitable for the heat fluxes expected in Tore Supra (10 MW/m${}^2$).
Tests were pursued up to 3330 cycles, with elements still functional. At higher heat fluxes, fatigue damage is observed, but the bond resists remarkably well with no tile detachment.
Examination of such deliberately damaged bonds showed distributed cracking, proving the absence of any weak link.
The limitations to those higher heat fluxes are more related to the design and the base materials than to the bond itself.
Aircraft structures experience various kinds of loads over their entire lifetime, typically leading to fatigue and ultimately structural failure.
In order to avoid structural failure during operation, the maximum number of flight cycles and flight hours is regulated by laws ensuring continued airworthiness.
However, since every flight impacts the aircraft differently, not all airframes are equally stressed at the time of decommissioning.
This paper proposes a new retirement criterion based on the so-called fatigue damage index (FDI).
The criterion takes into account that aircraft are differently operated and thus enables an individual decommissioning of aircraft without compromising its safety.
Based on aircraft sample data covering 95% of the Airbus A320 fleet over two years, the enhanced decommissioning criterion is estimated to significantly extend the average aircraft service life.
The impact varies within the fleet, depending on the experienced seat load factors, cruise altitudes, and taxi times considered for the individual aircraft during operation.
While seat load factors and flight altitudes significantly affect the defined FDI, the influence of taxi times is only minor.
Based on the estimated increase in aircraft service life, the paper argues that for service life extensions, the FDI shall be considered as the limit of validity in the regulatory framework governing the decommissioning of aircraft.
This paper aims to numerically study the pre-fatigue, low-velocity impact (LVI) and fatigue progressive damage behaviours of a full-scale composite helicopter tail structure under multipoint coordinated loading spectrum.
First, a fatigue progressive damage model (PDM) incorporating multiaxial fatigue residual strength degradation rule, fatigue failure criteria based on fatigue residual strength concept and sudden stiffness degradation rule was proposed.
Then, an LVI progressive damage model for plain-weave (PW) and unidirectional (UD) composites was developed.
Moreover, a full-process analysis algorithm with a reasonable damage transfer strategy for pre-fatigue, LVI and fatigue progressive damage analysis was proposed.
Finally, a highly computational efficient and accurate full-scale global-local finite element (FE) model of helicopter tail structure was built to predict strain distribution under two flight working conditions, to predict LVI damage under impact loading, and to assess fatigue damage behaviours under multipoint coordinated loading spectrum.
The numerical predictions agree well with test results from this work and literature data, indicating that the developed pre-fatigue, LVI, fatigue PDMs and algorithms, as well as the global-local FE modelling based on shell-to-solid coupling, can effectively analyse the impact damage tolerance of full-scale aircraft structures.
The effect of mechanical fatigue on structural performances of gold devices is investigated.
The pull-in voltage of special testing micro-systems is monitored during the cyclical load application.
The mechanical collapse is identified as a dramatic loss of mechanical strength of the specimen.
The fatigue limit is estimated through the stair-case method by means of the pull-in voltage measurements.
Measurements are performed by means of the optical interferometric technique.
This paper aims to experimentally and numerically probe fatigue behaviours and lifetimes of novel GLARE (glass laminate aluminium reinforced epoxy) laminates under random loading spectrum.
A mixed algorithm based on fatigue damage concepts of three-phase materials was proposed for modelling progressive fatigue damage mechanisms and fatigue life of fibre metal laminates (FML) under random loading spectrum.
To validate the proposed modelling algorithm, fatigue tests were conducted on the GLARE 2/1 and GLARE 3/2 laminates subjected to random loading spectrum, and fatigue mechanisms were discussed by using scanning electron microscope (SEM) analysis.
It is shown that predominant fatigue failure of the GLARE laminate depends on the reference load level of random loading spectrum.
Specifically, dominant fatigue failure of the GLARE laminate is dependent on fatigue strength of fibre layer at a high reference load level, but metal layer at a low reference load level.
Numerical predictions agree well with experimental results, demonstrating that the proposed mixed modelling algorithm can effectively simulate fatigue behaviours and lives of the GLARE laminate under random loading spectrum.
The failure of a component often is the result of a degradation process that originates with the formation of a crack.
Fatigue describes the crack formation in the material under cyclic loading.
Activation and deactivation operations of technical units are important examples in engineering where fatigue and especially low-cycle fatigue (LCF) play an essential role.
A significant scatter in fatigue life for many materials results in the necessity of advanced probabilistic models for fatigue.
Moreover, optimization of reliability is of vital interest in engineering, where with respect to fatigue the cost functionals are motivated by the predicted probability for the integrity of the component after a certain number of load cycles.
The natural mathematical language to model failure, here understood as crack initiation, is the language of spatio-temporal point processes and their first failure times.
This translates the problem of optimal reliability in the framework of shape optimization.
The cost functionals derived in this way for realistic optimal reliability problems are too singular to be $H^1$-lower semi-continuous as many damage mechanisms, like LCF, lead to crack initiation as a function of the stress at the component's surface.
Realistic crack formation models therefore impose a new challenge to the theory of shape optimization.
In this work, we have to modify the existence proof of optimal shapes, for the case of sufficiently smooth shapes using elliptic regularity, uniform Schauder estimates and compactness of strong solutions via the Arzela-Ascoli theorem.
This result applies to a variety of crack initiation models and in particular applies to a recent probabilistic model for LCF.
Fatigue is a critical factor in structures as wind turbines exposed to harsh operating conditions, both in the design stage and control during their operation.
In the present paper the most recognized approaches to estimate the damage caused by fatigue are discussed and compared, with special focus on their applicability for wind turbine control.
The aim of this paper is to serve as a guide among the vast literature on fatigue and shed some light on the underlying relationships between these methods.
In the present study, a general probabilistic design framework is developed for cyclic fatigue life prediction of metallic hardware using methods that address uncertainty in experimental data and computational model.
The methodology involves (i) fatigue test data conducted on coupons of Ti6Al4V material (ii) continuum damage mechanics based material constitutive models to simulate cyclic fatigue behavior of material (iii) variance-based global sensitivity analysis (iv) Bayesian framework for model calibration and uncertainty quantification and (v) computational life prediction and probabilistic design decision making under uncertainty.
The outcomes of computational analyses using the experimental data prove the feasibility of the probabilistic design methods for model calibration in presence of incomplete and noisy data.
Moreover, using probabilistic design methods result in assessment of reliability of fatigue life predicted by computational models.
In this work, a recently proposed high-cycle fatigue cohesive zone model, which covers crack initiation and propagation with limited input parameters, is embedded in a robust and efficient numerical framework for simulating progressive failure in composite laminates under fatigue loading.
The fatigue cohesive zone model is enhanced with an implicit time integration scheme of the fatigue damage variable which allows for larger cycle increments and more efficient analyses.
The method is combined with an adaptive strategy for determining the cycle increment based on global convergence rates.
Moreover, a consistent material tangent stiffness matrix has been derived by fully linearizing the underlying mixed-mode quasi-static model and the fatigue damage update.
The enhanced fatigue cohesive zone model is used to describe matrix cracking and delamination in laminates.
In order to allow for matrix cracks to initiate at arbitrary locations and to avoid complex and costly mesh generation, the phantom node version of the eXtended finite element method (XFEM) is employed.
For the insertion of new crack segments, an XFEM fatigue crack insertion criterion is presented, which is consistent with the fatigue cohesive zone formulation.
It is shown with numerical examples that the improved fatigue damage update enhances the accuracy, efficiency and robustness of the numerical simulations significantly.
The numerical framework is applied to the simulation of progressive fatigue failure in an open-hole [$\pm$45]-laminate.
It is demonstrated that the numerical model is capable of accurately and efficiently simulating the complete failure process from distributed damage to localized failure.
Composite structures must endure a great variety of multi-axial stress states during their lifespan while guaranteeing their structural integrity and functional performance.
Understanding the fatigue behavior of these materials, especially in the presence of notches that are ubiquitous in structural design, lies at the hearth of this study which presents a comprehensive investigation of the fracturing behavior of notched quasi-isotropic [+45/90/$-$45/0]$_{s}$ and cross-ply [0/90]$_{2s}$ laminates under multi-axial quasi-static and fatigue loading.
The investigation of the S-N curves and stiffness degradation, and the analysis of the damage mechanisms via micro-computed tomography clarified the effects of the multi-axiality ratio and the notch configuration.
Furthermore, it allowed to conclude that damage progression under fatigue loading can be substantially different compared to the quasi-static case.
Future efforts in the formulation of efficient fatigue models will need to account for the transition in damaging behavior in the context of the type of applied load, the evolution of the local multi-axiality ratio, the structure size and geometry, and stacking sequence.
By providing important data for model calibration and validation, this study represents a first step towards this important goal.
Fatigue caused by cyclic bending of a piece of material, resulting in its mechanical failure, is a phenomenon that had been studied for ages by engineers and physicists alike.
In this Letter we study such fatigue in a strip of athermal amorphous solid.
On the basis of atomistic simulations we conclude that the crucial quantity to focus on is the {\em accumulated damage}.
Although this quantity exhibits large sample-to-sample fluctuations, its dependence on the loading determines the statistics of the number of cycles to failure.
Thus we can provide a scaling theory for the Wöhler plots of mean number of cycles for failure as a function of the loading amplitude.
We extend a two-dimensional fracture model to capture the microscopic mechanisms relevant for fatigue, and we simulate the diametric compression of a disc shape specimen under a constant external force.
The model allows to follow the development of the fracture process on the macro- and micro-level varying the relative influence of the mechanisms of damage accumulation over the load history and healing of microcracks.
A numerical framework for simulating progressive failure under high-cycle fatigue loading is validated against experiments of composite quasi-isotropic open-hole laminates.
Transverse matrix cracking and delamination are modeled with a mixed-mode fatigue cohesive zone model, covering crack initiation and propagation.
Furthermore, XFEM is used for simulating transverse matrix cracks and splits at arbitrary locations.
An adaptive cycle jump approach is employed for efficiently simulating high-cycle fatigue while accounting for local stress ratio variations in the presence of thermal residual stresses.
The cycle jump scheme is integrated in the XFEM framework, where the local stress ratio is used to determine the insertion of cracks and to propagate fatigue damage.
The fatigue cohesive zone model is based on S-N curves and requires static material properties and only a few fatigue parameters, calibrated on simple fracture testing specimens.
The simulations demonstrate a good correspondence with experiments in terms of fatigue life and damage evolution.
This study aims to investigate whether fatigue damage induced by bottom wave slamming can be a failure mode important to consider when sizing a marine structural element.
The body exposed to wave impacts is assumed to have a shape and structural arrangement such that the duration of wave-impact loads is short relative to the structure's vibratory response time.
In this dynamical regime, fatigue is found to be a potentially important failure mechanism: accounting for the risk of failure due to fatigue damage may result in design constraints that are significantly more conservative than those based on the risk of ultimate strength exceedance.
The role of fatigue damage depends on the elevation of the body.
It is predominant for low elevations, for which slamming events are frequent.
Since this study aims to provide general insight, the specific details of the body, such as its shape and structural arrangement, are not specified.
Instead, a general framework is used for the analysis.
The way forward to address a specific case study, possibly including the effects of forward and seakeeping motions, is briefly explained.
Static mechanical properties (e.g. elastic modulus) and fatigue properties of a material all have dispersions.
Material inhomogeneity (it can be characterized well by the dispersion of elastic modulus) is the internal factor of dispersions of fatigue properties and the dispersion of the load is the external factor.
In this paper, according to theoretical derivation and preliminary experiments verification, the following relationships between dispersions of fatigue properties and dispersions of static mechanical properties of a material are obtained: the dispersion of fatigue life is n (the fatigue index) times of the sum of the dispersion of elastic modulus and the dispersion of the load.
The corresponding dispersion of fatigue life is a decreasing function of the given fatigue strength in the stage of high cycle fatigue; P-S curve (the probability statistical distribution of fatigue strength) under the given fatigue life cannot be directly by test, but P-S curve can be obtained on the bias of P-N curve (the probability statistical distribution of fatigue life), and the corresponding dispersion of fatigue strength is a decreasing function of the given fatigue life.
On bias of conclusions above, not only the inhomogeneity of material but also the dispersion of the load needs to be considered in the fatigue design, especially in high cycle fatigue design.
Mechanical components that are exposed to cyclic mechanical loading fail at loads that are well below the ultimate tensile strength.
This process is known as fatigue.
The failure time, that is the time when a first crack forms, is highly random.
In this work we review some recent developments in the modelling of probabilistic failure times, understood as the time to the formation of a fatigue crack.
We also discuss the how probabilistic models can be used in shape design with the design intent of optimizing the component's reliability.
We give review a recent existence result for optimal shapes and we discuss continuous and discrete shape derivatives.
Another application is optimal service scheduling.
The mathematical fields involved range from reliability statistics over stochastic point processes, multiscale modeling, PDEs on variable geometries, shape optimization and numerical analysis to operations research.
We obtain the Paris law of fatigue crack propagation in a disordered solid using a fuse network model where the accumulated damage in each resistor increases with time as a power law of the local current amplitude.
When a resistor reaches its fatigue threshold, it burns irreversibly.
Over time, this drives cracks to grow until the system is fractured in two parts.
We study the relation between the macroscopic exponent of the crack growth rate -- entering the phenomenological Paris law -- and the microscopic damage-accumulation exponent, $γ$, under the influence of disorder.
The way the jumps of the growing crack, $Δa$, and the waiting-time between successive breaks, $Δt$, depend on the type of material, via $γ$, are also investigated.
We find that the averages of these quantities, $<Δa>$ and $<Δt>/<t_r>$, scale as power laws of the crack length $a$, $<Δa> \propto a^α$ and $<Δt>/<t_r> \propto a^{-β}$, where $<t_r>$ is the average rupture time.
Strikingly, our results show, for small values of $γ$, a decrease in the exponent of the Paris law in comparison with the homogeneous case, leading to an increase in the lifetime of breaking materials.
For the particular case of $γ=0$, when fatigue is exclusively ruled by disorder, an analytical treatment confirms the results obtained by simulation.
This paper presents a multi-scale modelling approach to investigate the underpinning mechanisms of microstructure-sensitive damage of single crystal Sn-3Ag-0.5Cu (wt%, SAC305) solder joints of a Ball Grid Array (BGA) board assembly subject to thermal cycling.
The multi-scale scheme couples board-scale modelling at the continuum macro-scale and individual solder modelling at the crystal micro-scale.
Systematic studies of tin crystal orientation and its role in fatigue damage have been compared to experimental observations.
Crystallographic orientation is examined with respect to damage development, providing evidence-based optimal solder microstructural design for in-service thermomechanical fatigue.
Accurate lifetime prediction of structures subjected to cyclic loading is vital, especially in scenarios involving non-uniform loading histories where load sequencing critically influences structural durability.
Addressing this complexity requires advanced modeling approaches capable of capturing the intricate relationship between loading sequences and fatigue lifetime.
Traditional fatigue simulations are computationally prohibitive, necessitating more efficient methods.
This study highlights the potential of physics-based machine learning ($φ$ML) to predict the fatigue lifetime of materials.
Specifically, a FFNN is designed to embed physical constraints from experimental evidence directly into its architecture to enhance prediction accuracy.
It is trained using numerical simulations generated by a physically based anisotropic continuum damage fatigue model.
The model is calibrated and validated against experimental fatigue data of concrete cylinder specimens tested in uniaxial compression.
The proposed approach demonstrates superior accuracy compared to purely data-driven neural networks, particularly in situations with limited training data, achieving realistic predictions of damage accumulation.
Thus, a general algorithm is developed and successfully applied to predict fatigue lifetimes under complex loading scenarios with multiple loading ranges.
Hereby, the $φ$ML model serves as a surrogate to capture damage evolution across load transitions.
The $φ$ML based algorithm is subsequently employed to investigate the influence of multiple loading transitions on accumulated fatigue life, and its predictions align with trends observed in recent experimental studies.
This work demonstrates $φ$ML as a promising technique for efficient and reliable fatigue life prediction in engineering structures, with possible integration into digital twin models for real-time assessment.
Engineering fatigue is a very prevalent and dangerous phenomenon that limits the useful life span of mechanical structures.
It can be found in most engineered structures and machinery that are made from metallic or composite materials.
The life prediction methodology under variable amplitude loading (VAL), however, has not reached maturity due to the complexity of the loading.
This complexity results in load sequence effects, which significantly alter the fatigue life.
Since most of the realistic loading experienced by engineered structures is of variable amplitude nature, and the corresponding responses at the defect site are highly irregular, characterization of the VAL and its resulting damage is paramount.
Fatigue life estimation under VAL conventionally uses methods based on the Miner's Rule or the cumulative damage rule (CDR) in conjunction with the rainflow counting method.
However, CDR does not account for the load interaction/sequence effects induced by local residual stress (or crack opening stress) variations.
We present a generalised phase field formulation for predicting high-cycle fatigue in metals.
Different fatigue degradation functions are presented, together with new damage accumulation strategies, to account for (i) a typical S-N curve slope, (ii) the fatigue endurance limit, and (iii) the mean stress effect.
The numerical implementation exploits an efficient quasi-Newton monolithic solution strategy and Virtual S-N curves are computed for both smooth and notched samples.
The comparison with experiments reveals that the model can accurately predict fatigue lives and endurance limits, as well as naturally capture the influence of the stress concentration factor and the load ratio.
Fatigue damages and failure widely exist in engineering structures.
However, predicting fatigue life for various structural materials subjected to multiaxial loading paths remains a challenging problem.
A novel multi-view deep learning model incorporating frequency-domain analysis for fatigue life prediction is proposed.
The model consists of two main analytical components: one for analyzing multiaxial fatigue loading paths and the other for examining the mechanical properties of materials and specimen geometrical characteristics.
In the module analyzing multiaxial fatigue loading paths, convolutional neural network (CNN), long short-term memory network (LSTM), and FNet are connected in parallel to extract features individually.
Features of materials and specimens are extracted through fully connected neural networks (FCNNs).
Subsequently, the features from these two parts are thoroughly integrated based on attention mechanisms, and connected to multiple FCNNs to accomplish fatigue life prediction.
A fatigue experimental database comprising 557 samples, spanning 46 multiaxial loading paths and 19 metal materials, has been established for model training and testing.
Additionally, 6 materials were respectively used as test sets to evaluate the extrapolation ability of the model.
The results suggest that the proposed model exhibits robust predictive performance and extrapolation capabilities.
We anticipate that the multi-view approach, along with its accuracy and applicability, can provide an unparalleled alternative for researchers in the field of engineering fatigue and beyond.
Phase field fracture models have seen widespread application in the last decade.
Among these applications, its use to model the evolution of fatigue cracks has attracted particular interest, as fatigue damage behaviour can be predicted for arbitrary loading histories, dimensions and complexity of the cracking phenomena at play.
However, while cycle-by-cycle calculations are remarkably flexible, they are also computationally expensive, hindering the applicability of phase field fatigue models for technologically-relevant problems.
In this work, a computational framework for accelerating phase field fatigue calculations is presented.
Two novel acceleration strategies are proposed, which can be used in tandem and together with other existing acceleration schemes from the literature.
The computational performance of the proposed methods is documented through a series of 2D and 3D boundary value problems, highlighting the robustness and efficiency of the framework even in complex fatigue problems.
The observed reduction in computation time using both of the proposed methods in tandem is shown to reach a speed-up factor of 32, with a scaling trend enabling even greater reductions in problems with more load cycles.
Engineers and scientists have been collecting and analyzing fatigue data since the 1800s to ensure the reliability of life-critical structures.
Applications include (but are not limited to) bridges, building structures, aircraft and spacecraft components, ships, ground-based vehicles, and medical devices.
Engineers need to estimate S-N relationships (Stress or Strain versus Number of cycles to failure), typically with a focus on estimating small quantiles of the fatigue-life distribution.
Estimates from this kind of model are used as input to models (e.g., cumulative damage models) that predict failure-time distributions under varying stress patterns.
Also, design engineers need to estimate lower-tail quantiles of the closely related fatigue-strength distribution.
The history of applying incorrect statistical methods is nearly as long and such practices continue to the present.
Examples include treating the applied stress (or strain) as the response and the number of cycles to failure as the explanatory variable in regression analyses (because of the need to estimate strength distributions) and ignoring or otherwise mishandling censored observations (known as runouts in the fatigue literature).
The first part of the paper reviews the traditional modeling approach where a fatigue-life model is specified.
We then show how this specification induces a corresponding fatigue-strength model.
The second part of the paper presents a novel alternative modeling approach where a fatigue-strength model is specified and a corresponding fatigue-life model is induced.
We explain and illustrate the important advantages of this new modeling approach.
Individualized training improved post-stroke motor function rehabilitation efficiency.
However, the mechanisms of how individualized training facilitates recovery is not clear.
This study explored the cortical and corticomuscular rehabilitative effects in post-stroke motor function recovery during individualized training.
Sprague-Dawley rats with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) were randomly distributed into two groups: forced training (FOR-T, n=13) and individualized fatigue-controlled training (FAT-C, n=13) to receive training respectively from day 2 to day 14 post-stroke.
The FAT-C group exhibited superior motor function recovery and less central fatigue compared to the FOR-T group.
EEG PSD slope analysis demonstrated a better inter-hemispheric balance in FAT-C group compare to the FOR-T group.
The dCMC analysis indicated that training-induced fatigue led to a short-term down-regulation of descending corticomuscular coherence (dCMC) and an up-regulation of ascending dCMC.
In the long term, excessive fatigue hindered the recovery of descending control in the affected hemisphere.
The individualized strategy of peripheral fatigue-controlled training achieved better motor function recovery, which could be attributed to the mitigation of central fatigue, optimization of inter-hemispheric balance and enhancement of descending control in the affected hemisphere.
We quantify the uncertainty of the Lämmer model of damage evolution when fitted to (noisy) observations of damage evolution in cyclic fatigue experiments with and without dwell time.
We therefore develop a bootstrap method by sampling over blocks of load cycles in the experiments in order to quantify the uncertainty in the material parameters of the Lämmer damage evolution equation.
We first develop a resilient optimization algorithm for parameter identification based on numerical solutions of damage evolution.
The uncertainty is quantified on three levels: distribution of parameters of the Lämmer model, confidence bands for the solutions of damage evolution, and distributions of failure times.
The method is tested on several data sets, committing considerable high-performance computing resources to the task.
The emerging applications of hydrogels in devices and machines require these soft materials to maintain robustness under cyclic mechanical loads.
Whereas hydrogels have been made tough to resist fracture under a single cycle of mechanical load, these toughened gels still suffer from fatigue fracture under multiple cycles of loads.
The reported fatigue threshold (i.e., the minimal fracture energy at which crack propagation occurs under cyclic loads) for synthetic hydrogels is on the order of 1-100 J/m2, which is primarily associated with the energy required to fracture a single layer of polymer chains per unit area.
Here, we demonstrate that the controlled introduction of crystallinity in hydrogels can significantly enhance their fatigue thresholds, since the process of fracturing crystalline domains for fatigue-crack propagation requires much higher energy than fracturing a single layer of polymer chains.
The fatigue threshold of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) with a crystallinity of 18.9 wt.% in the swollen state can exceed 1,000 J/m2.
We further develop a strategy to enhance the anti-fatigue-fracture properties of PVA hydrogels, but still maintain their high water contents and low moduli by patterning highly-crystalline regions in the hydrogels.
The current work not only reveals an anti-fatigue-fracture mechanism in hydrogels but also provides a practical method to design anti-fatigue-fracture hydrogels for diverse applications.
Background: The performance of biometric modalities based on things done by the subject, like signature and text-based recognition, may be affected by the subject state.
Fatigue is one of the conditions that can significantly affect the outcome of handwriting tasks.
Recent research has already shown that physical fatigue produces measurable differences in some features extracted from common writing and drawing tasks.
It is important to establish to which extent physical fatigue contributes to the intra-person variability observed in these biometric modalities and also to know whether the performance of recognition methods is affected by fatigue.
Goal: In this paper we assess the impact of fatigue on intra-user variability and on the performance of signature-based and text-based writer recognition approaches encompassing both identification and verification.
Methods: Several signature and text recognition methods are considered and applied to samples gathered after different levels of induced fatigue, measured by metabolic and mechanical assessment and, also by subjective perception.
The recognition methods are Dynamic Time Warping and Multi Section Vector Quantization, for signatures, and Allographic Text-Dependent Recognition for text in capital letters.
For each fatigue level, the identification and verification performance of these methods is measured.
Results: Signature shows no statistically significant intra-user impact, but text does.
On the other hand, performance of signature-based recognition approaches is negatively impacted by fatigue whereas the impact is not noticeable in text-based recognition, provided long enough sequences are considered.
This article addresses the probabilistic nature of fatigue life in structures subjected to cyclic loading with variable amplitude.
Drawing on the formalisation of Miner's cumulative damage rule that we introduced in the recent article [Cartiaux, Ehrlacher, Legoll, Libal and Reygner, Prob.
Mech. 2023], we apply our methodology to estimate the survival probability of an industrial structure using experimental data.
The study considers both the randomness in the initial state of the structure and in the amplitude of loading cycles.
The results indicate that the variability of loading cycles can be captured through the concept of deterministic equivalent damage, providing a computationally efficient method for assessing the fatigue life of the structure.
Furthermore, the article highlights that the usual combination of Miner's rule and of the weakest link principle systematically overestimates the structure's fatigue life.
On the case study that we consider, this overestimation reaches a multiplicative factor of more than two.
We then describe how the probabilistic framework that we have introduced offers a remedy to this overestimation.
Phase-field models of fatigue are capable of reproducing the main phenomenology of fatigue behavior.
However, phase-field computations in the high-cycle fatigue regime are prohibitively expensive, due to the need to resolve spatially the small length scale inherent to phase-field models and temporally the loading history for several millions of cycles.
As a remedy, we propose a fully adaptive acceleration scheme based on the cycle jump technique, where the cycle-by-cycle resolution of an appropriately determined number of cycles is skipped while predicting the local system evolution during the jump.
The novelty of our approach is a cycle-jump criterion to determine the appropriate cycle-jump size based on a target increment of a global variable which monitors the advancement of fatigue.
We propose the definition and meaning of this variable for three general stages of the fatigue life.
In comparison to existing acceleration techniques, our approach needs no parameters and bounds for the cycle-jump size, and it works independently of the material, specimen or loading conditions.
Since one of the monitoring variables is the fatigue crack length, we introduce an accurate, flexible and efficient method for its computation, which overcomes the issues of conventional crack tip tracking algorithms and enables the consideration of several cracks evolving at the same time.
The performance of the proposed acceleration scheme is demonstrated with representative numerical examples, which show a speedup reaching four orders of magnitude in the high-cycle fatigue regime with consistently high accuracy.
The adverse effects of sea water environment on the fatigue life of woven carbon fiber/vinyl ester composites are established at room temperature in view of long-term survivability of offshore structures.
It is observed that the influence of sea water saturation on the fatigue life is more pronounced when the maximum cyclic displacement approaches maximum quasi-static deflection, that is, the reduction in the number of cycles to failure are comparable between dry and sea water saturated samples at lower strain ranges (~37% at 0.46% strain), but are drastically different at higher strain ranges (~90% at 0.62% strain).
Key damage modes that manifest during the fatigue loading is also identified, and a non-linear model is established for predicting low cycle fatigue life of these composites in dry and sea water saturated conditions.
Pressure sensitive adhesives (PSAs) are viscoelastic polymers that can form fast and robust adhesion with various adherends under fingertip pressure.
The rapidly expanding application domain of PSAs, such as healthcare, wearable electronics, and flexible displays, requires PSAs to sustain prolonged loads throughout their lifetime, calling for fundamental studies on their fatigue behaviors.
However, fatigue of PSAs has remained poorly investigated.
Here we study interfacial fatigue fracture of PSAs, focusing on the cyclic interfacial crack propagation due to the gradual rupture of noncovalent bonds between a PSA and an adherend.
We fabricate a model PSA made of a hysteresis-free poly(butyl acrylate) bulk elastomer dip-coated with a viscoelastic poly(butyl acrylate-co-isobornyl acrylate) sticky surface, both crosslinked by poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate.
We adhere the fabricated PSA to a polyester strip to form a bilayer.
The bilayer is covered by another polyester film as an inextensible backing layer.
Using cyclic and monotonic peeling tests, we characterize the interfacial fatigue and fracture behaviors of the bilayer.
From the experimental data, we obtain the interfacial fatigue threshold (4.6 J/m2) under cyclic peeling, the slow crack threshold (33.9 J/m2) under monotonic peeling, and the adhesion toughness (~ 400 J/m2) at a finite peeling speed.
We develop a modified Lake-Thomas model to describe the interfacial fatigue threshold due to noncovalent bond breaking.
The theoretical prediction (2.6 J/m2) agrees well with the experimental measurement (4.6 J/m2).
Finally, we discuss possible additional dissipation mechanisms involved in the larger slow crack threshold and much larger adhesion toughness.
It is hoped that this study will provide new fundamental knowledge for fracture mechanics of PSAs, as well as guidance for future tough and durable PSAs.
We investigate a model for fatigue crack growth in which damage accumulation is assumed to follow a power law of the local stress amplitude, a form which can be generically justified on the grounds of the approximately self-similar aspect of microcrack distributions.
By a series of analytical and numerical calculations, we show that, in the absence of disorder, there is a critical damage-accumulation exponent $γ$, namely $γ_c=2$, separating two distinct regimes of behavior for the Paris exponent $m$.
For $γ>γ_c$, the Paris exponent is shown to assume the value $m=γ$, a result which proves robust against the separate introduction of various modifying ingredients.
Explicitly, we deal here with (i) the requirement of a minimum stress for damage to occur; (ii) the presence of disorder in local damage thresholds; (iii) the possibility of crack healing.
On the other hand, in the regime $γ<γ_c$ the Paris exponent is seen to be sensitive to the different ingredients added to the model, with rapid healing or a high minimum stress for damage leading to $m=2$ for all $γ<γ_c$, in contrast with the linear dependence $m=6-2γ$ observed for very long characteristic healing times in the absence of a minimum stress for damage.
Upon the introduction of disorder on the local fatigue thresholds, which leads to the possible appearance of multiple cracks along the propagation line, the Paris exponent tends to $m\approx 4$ for $γ\lesssim 2$, while retaining the behavior $m=γ$ for $γ\gtrsim 4$.
A new fatigue life prediction method using the energy-based approach under uniaxial and multiaxial random loadings is proposed in this paper.
One unique characteristic of the proposed method is that it uses time-derivative damage accumulation model compared to the classical cycle-based damage accumulation model.
Thus, damage under arbitrary random loading can be directly obtained using time-domain integration without cycle counting (e.g., rain-flow cycle counting method in classical fatigue analysis).
First, a brief review of existing models is given focusing on their applicability to uniaxial/multiaxial, constant/random, and high cycle fatigue/low cycle fatigue loading regimes.
It is observed that most existing models are only applicable to certain loading conditions and many of them are not applicable/validated under random loadings.
Next, a time-derivative damage accumulation model under uniaxial random loading is proposed.
The proposed damage function is inspired by a time-domain fatigue crack growth model.
The fatigue life is obtained by integrating the damage function following random energy loading histories.
Following this, an equivalent energy concept for general multiaxial loading conditions is used to convert the random multiaxial loading to an equivalent random uniaxial loading, where the time-derivative damage model can be used.
Finally, the proposed model is validated with extensive experimental data from open literature and in-house testing data under various constant and random spectrum loadings.
Conclusions and future work are suggested based on the findings from this study.
Musculoskeletal disorder (MSD) is one of the major health problems in mechanical work especially in manual handling jobs.
Muscle fatigue is believed to be the main reason for MSD.
Posture analysis techniques have been used to expose MSD risks of the work, but most of the conventional methods are only suitable for static posture analysis.
Meanwhile the subjective influences from the inspectors can result differences in the risk assessment.
Another disadvantage is that the evaluation has to be taken place in the workshop, so it is impossible to avoid some design defects before data collection in the field environment and it is time consuming.
In order to enhance the efficiency of ergonomic MSD risk evaluation and avoid subjective influences, we develop a new muscle fatigue model and a new fatigue index to evaluate the human muscle fatigue during manual handling jobs in this paper.
Our new fatigue model is closely related to the muscle load during working procedure so that it can be used to evaluate the dynamic working process.
This muscle fatigue model is mathematically validated and it is to be further experimental validated and integrated into a virtual working environment to evaluate the muscle fatigue and predict the MSD risks quickly and objectively.
As offshore wind turbines develop into deepwater operations, accurately quantifying the impact of stochastic excitations in complex sea environments on offshore wind turbines and conducting structural fatigue reliability analysis has become challenging.
In this paper, based on long-term wind-wave reanalysis data from a site in the South China Sea, a novel direct probability integral method (DPIM) is developed for the stochastic response and fatigue reliability analyses of the key components for the floating offshore wind turbine structures under combined wind-wave excitation.
A 5MW floating offshore wind turbine is considered as the research object, and a fully coupled dynamic response analysis of the wind turbine system is conducted to calculate the short-term fatigue damage value of tower base and blade root.
The DPIM is applied to calculate the fatigue reliability of the wind turbine structure.
The accuracy and efficiency of the proposed method are validated by comparing the obtained results with those of Monte Carlo simulations.
Furthermore, the results indicate that the fatigue life of floating offshore wind turbine structures under combined wind-wave excitation meets the design requirements.
Notably, the fatigue reliability of the wind turbine under aligned wind-wave condition is lower compared to misaligned wind-wave condition.
This work investigated how the structure size affects the quasi-static and fatigue behaviors of graphene polymer nanocomposites, a topic that has been often overlooked.
The results showed that both quasi-static and fatigue failure of these materials scale nonlinearly with the structure size due to the presence of a significant Fracture Process Zone (FPZ) ahead of the crack tip induced by graphene nanomodification.
Such a complicated size effect and scaling in either quasi-static or fatigue scenario cannot be described by the Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics (LEFM), but can be well captured by the Size Effect Law (SEL) which considers the FPZ.
Thanks to the SEL, the enhanced quasi-static and fatigue fracture properties were properly characterized and shown to be independent of the structure size.
In addition, the differences on the morphological and mechanical behaviors between quasi-static fracture and fatigue fracture were also identified and clarified in this work.
The experimental data and analytical analyses reported in this paper are important to deeply understand the mechanics of polymer-based nanocomposite materials and even other quasi-brittle materials (e.g., fiber-reinforced polymers or its hybrid with nanoparticles, etc.), and further advance the development of computational models capable of capturing size-dependent fracture of materials in various loading conditions.
Fatigue can cause materials that undergo cyclic loading to experience brittle failure at much lower stresses than under monotonic loading.
We propose that the lithospheres of icy satellites could become fatigued and thus weakened by cyclical tidal stresses.
To test this hypothesis, we performed a series of laboratory experiments to measure the fatigue of water ice at temperatures of $198$ K and $233$ K and at a loading frequency of $1$ Hz.
We find that ice is \textit{not} susceptible to fatigue at our experimental conditions and that the brittle failure stress does not decrease with increasing number of loading cycles.
Even though fatigue was not observed at our experimental conditions, colder temperatures, lower loading frequencies, and impurities in the ice shells of icy satellites may increase the likelihood of fatigue crack growth.
We also explore other mechanisms that may explain the weak behavior of the lithospheres of some icy satellites.
The empirical Coffin-Manson law has been used to characterize the low-cycle mechanical fatigue failure of metallic materials for decades.
Our experimental studies reported in this letter have shown that the electrical fatigue failure in dielectrics can be well described by a fitting function having the same mathematical expression as that of the Coffin-Manson law.
This observation indicates that the physical mechanism beneath the formation and evolution of atomic disordered structures, the key factor influencing both mechanical and electrical fatigue, might be the same.
A new model is presented to predict hydrogen-assisted fatigue.
The model combines a phase field description of fracture and fatigue, stress-assisted hydrogen diffusion, and a toughness degradation formulation with cyclic and hydrogen contributions.
Hydrogen-assisted fatigue crack growth predictions exhibit an excellent agreement with experiments over all the scenarios considered, spanning multiple load ratios, H2 pressures and loading frequencies.
These are obtained without any calibration with hydrogen-assisted fatigue data, taking as input only mechanical and hydrogen transport material properties, the material's fatigue characteristics (from a single test in air), and the sensitivity of fracture toughness to hydrogen content.
Furthermore, the model is used to determine: (i) what are suitable test loading frequencies to obtain conservative data, and (ii) the underestimation made when not pre-charging samples.
The model can handle both laboratory specimens and large-scale engineering components, enabling the Virtual Testing paradigm in infrastructure exposed to hydrogen environments and cyclic loading.
For the fatigue life of thin-walled components, not only fatigue crack initiation, but also crack growth is decisive.
The phase-field method for fracture is a powerful tool to simulate arbitrary crack phenomena.
Recently, it has been applied to fatigue fracture.
Those models pose an alternative to classical fracture-mechanical approaches for fatigue life estimation.
In the first part of this paper, the parameters of a phase-field fatigue model are calibrated and its predictions are compared to results of fatigue crack growth experiments of aluminium sheet material. In the second part, compressive residual stresses are introduced into the components with the help of laser shock peening.
It is shown that those residual stresses influence the crack growth rate by retarding and accelerating the crack.
In order to study these fatigue mechanisms numerically, a simple strategy to incorporate residual stresses in the phase-field fatigue model is presented and tested with experiments.
The study shows that the approach can reproduce the effects of the residual stresses on the crack growth rate.
Corrosion fatigue is a major threat to the integrity of marine structures.
However, the combined damaging effect of corrosion and fatigue is not well understood due to the uncertainties associated with the stochastic nature of pitting corrosion.
A pitting corrosion defect could have a quite complex morphology that varies randomly from one case to another.
Nevertheless, in numerical corrosion fatigue studies, the complex pit morphology is often idealized using an overly simplified geometry with a smooth surface because of the diffi-culties involved in modelling defects with the irregular and random shapes of pitting corrosion.
The present study investigates the influence of such geometrical simplifications on the results of numerical corrosion fatigue analyses.
For this purpose, an isolated complex-shaped pit, generated using a hierarchical stochastic algorithm scripted in Python and linked with Abaqus/CAE, is developed in a Q235 steel dog-bone specimen.
The numer-ical results obtained from this model are compared with those from another model containing an idealized counterpart of the irregular pit.
A discussion on the effect of pit morphology on the stress/strain history and distribution and fatigue crack initiation is presented.
By using piezoelectric force microscopy and scanning Kelvin probe microscopy, we have investigated the domain evolution and space charge distribution in planar BiFeO3 capacitors with different electrodes.
It is observed that charge injection at the film/electrode interface leads to domain pinning and polarization fatigue in BiFeO3.
Furthermore, the Schottky barrier at the interface is crucial for the charge injection process.
Lowering the Schottky barrier by using low work function metals as the electrodes can also improve the fatigue property of the device, similar to what oxide electrodes can achieve.
Fatigue-induced damage is still one of the most uncertain failures in structural systems.
Prognostic health monitoring together with surrogate models can help to predict the fatigue life of a structure.
This paper demonstrates how to combine data from previously observed crack evolutions with data from the currently observed structure in order to predict crack growth and the total fatigue life.
We show the application of one physics-based model, which is based on Paris' law, and four mathematical surrogate models: recurrent neural networks, Gaussian process regression, k-nearest neighbors, and support vector regression.
For a coupon test, we predict the time to failure and the crack growth with confidence intervals.
Moreover, we compare the performance of all proposed models by the mean absolute error, coefficient of determination, mean of log-likelihood, and their confidence intervals.
The results show that the best mathematical surrogate models are Gaussian process regression and recurrent neural networks.
Furthermore, this paper shows that the mathematical surrogate models tend to have conservative confidence intervals, whereas the physics-based model exhibits overly optimistic (too small) confidence intervals.
Fatigue detection is valued for people to keep mental health and prevent safety accidents.
However, detecting facial fatigue, especially mild fatigue in the real world via machine vision is still a challenging issue due to lack of non-lab dataset and well-defined algorithms.
In order to improve the detection capability on facial fatigue that can be used widely in daily life, this paper provided an audiovisual dataset named DLFD (daily-life fatigue dataset) which reflected people's facial fatigue state in the wild.
A framework using 3D-ResNet along with non-local attention mechanism was training for extraction of local and long-range features in spatial and temporal dimensions.
Then, a compacted loss function combining mean squared error and cross-entropy was designed to predict both continuous and categorical fatigue degrees.
Our proposed framework has reached an average accuracy of 90.8% on validation set and 72.5% on test set for binary classification, standing a good position compared to other state-of-the-art methods.
The analysis of feature map visualization revealed that our framework captured facial dynamics and attempted to build a connection with fatigue state.
Our experimental results in multiple metrics proved that our framework captured some typical, micro and dynamic facial features along spatiotemporal dimensions, contributing to the mild fatigue detection in the wild.
Fatigue is one of the key factors in the loss of work efficiency and health-related quality of life, and most fatigue assessment methods were based on self-reporting, which may suffer from many factors such as recall bias.
To address this issue, we developed an automated system using wearable sensing and machine learning techniques for objective fatigue assessment.
ECG/Actigraphy data were collected from subjects in free-living environments.
Preprocessing and feature engineering methods were applied, before interpretable solution and deep learning solution were introduced.
Specifically, for interpretable solution, we proposed a feature selection approach which can select less correlated and high informative features for better understanding system's decision-making process.
For deep learning solution, we used state-of-the-art self-attention model, based on which we further proposed a consistency self-attention (CSA) mechanism for fatigue assessment.
Extensive experiments were conducted, and very promising results were achieved.
Dental implant geometry affects the mechanical performance and fatigue behavior of butt-joint implant-supported restorations.
However, failure of the implant component has been generally studied by ignoring the prosthetic screw, which is frequently the critical restoration component Purpose.
Evaluate the effect of 3 main implant geometric parameters: the implant body diameter, the platform diameter, and the implant-abutment connection type (external versus internal butt-joint) on the fatigue life of the prosthetic screw.
The experimental values were further compared with the theoretical ones obtained by using a previously published methodology M&M. 4 different designs of direct-to-implant dental restorations from the manufacturer BTI were tested.
Forty-eight fatigue tests were performed in an axial fatigue testing machine according to ISO 14801.
Linear regression models, 95% interval confidence bands for the linear regression, and 95% prediction intervals of the fatigue load-life results were obtained and compared through an analysis of covariance to determine the influence of the 3 parameters under study on the fatigue behavior Results.
Linear regression models showed a statistical difference when the implant body diameter was increased by 1 mm; an average 3.5-fold increase in fatigue life was observed.
Increasing the implant abutment connection diameter by 1.4 mm also showed a significant difference, leading to 7-fold longer fatigue life on average.
No significant statistical evidence was found to demonstrate a difference in fatigue life between internal and external connections Conclusions.
Increasing the implant platform and body diameter significantly improved the fatigue life of the screw, whereas external and internal connections provided similar results.
In addition, experimental results proved the accuracy of the fatigue life prediction methodology
Fatigue-induced crack growth is a leading cause of structural failure across critical industries such as aerospace, civil engineering, automotive, and energy.
Accurate prediction of stress intensity factors (SIFs) -- the key parameters governing crack propagation in linear elastic fracture mechanics -- is essential for assessing fatigue life and ensuring structural integrity.
While machine learning (ML) has shown great promise in SIF prediction, its advancement has been severely limited by the lack of rich, transparent, well-organized, and high-quality datasets.
To address this gap, we introduce SIFBench, an open-source, large-scale benchmark database designed to support ML-based SIF prediction.
SIFBench contains over 5 million different crack and component geometries derived from high-fidelity finite element simulations across 37 distinct scenarios, and provides a unified Python interface for seamless data access and customization.
We report baseline results using a range of popular ML models -- including random forests, support vector machines, feedforward neural networks, and Fourier neural operators -- alongside comprehensive evaluation metrics and template code for model training, validation, and assessment.
By offering a standardized and scalable resource, SIFBench substantially lowers the entry barrier and fosters the development and application of ML methods in damage tolerance design and predictive maintenance.
Colloidal gels are formed through the aggregation of attractive particles, whose size ranges from 10~nm to a few micrometers, suspended in a liquid.
Such gels are ubiquitous in everyday life applications, from food products to paints or construction materials, in particular thanks to their ability to easily "yield", i.e., to turn from a solid to a liquid under the application of a weak external load.
Understanding and controlling the mechanical response of colloidal gels is therefore of prime importance.
Depending on the details of the system, however, the resulting gel networks present different microstructural organisations that may lead to widely different mechanical responses.
This raises important challenges in fully characterizing yielding and in uncovering the mechanisms of nonlinear response in colloidal gels.
In this paper, we distinguish between two classes of colloidal gels showing respectively reversible yielding, where the gel network reforms upon load release, and irreversible yielding, where the network is fully destroyed through fractures and phase separation.
This broad, empirical distinction is achieved through rheology and local experiments at a mesoscopic scale, intermediate between the network characteristic size and the sample size.
We further discuss how the observables derived from creep and fatigue experiments may be modelled to predict yielding and highlight open questions and future research directions in the domain.
Accurate prediction of turbine blade fatigue life is essential for ensuring the safety and reliability of aircraft engines.
A significant challenge in this domain is uncovering the intrinsic relationship between mechanical properties and fatigue life.
This paper introduces Reinforced Symbolic Learning (RSL), a method that derives predictive formulas linking these properties to fatigue life.
RSL incorporates logical constraints during symbolic optimization, ensuring that the generated formulas are both physically meaningful and interpretable.
The optimization process is further enhanced using deep reinforcement learning, which efficiently guides the symbolic regression towards more accurate models.
The proposed RSL method was evaluated on two turbine blade materials, GH4169 and TC4, to identify optimal fatigue life prediction models.
When compared with six empirical formulas and five machine learning algorithms, RSL not only produces more interpretable formulas but also achieves superior or comparable predictive accuracy.
Additionally, finite element simulations were conducted to assess mechanical properties at critical points on the blade, which were then used to predict fatigue life under various operating conditions.
Soft actuators have attracted a great deal of interest in the context of rehabilitative and assistive robots for increasing safety and lowering costs as compared to rigid-body robotic systems.
During actuation, soft actuators experience high levels of deformation, which can lead to microscale fractures in their elastomeric structure, which fatigues the system over time and eventually leads to macroscale damages and eventually failure.
This paper reports finite element modeling (FEM) of pneu-nets at high angles, along with repetitive experimentation at high deformation rates, in order to study the effect and behavior of fatigue in soft robotic actuators, which would result in deviation from the ideal behavior.
Comparing the FEM model and experimental data, we show that FEM can model the performance of the actuator before fatigue to a bending angle of 167 degrees with ~96% accuracy.
We also show that the FEM model performance will drop to 80% due to fatigue after repetitive high-angle bending.
The results of this paper objectively highlight the emergence of fatigue over cyclic activation of the system and the resulting deviation from the computational FEM model.
Such behavior can be considered in future controllers to adapt the system with time-variable and non-autonomous response dynamics of soft robots.
Epithelial tissues are continuously exposed to cyclic stretch.
Physiological stretching has been found to regulate soft tissue function at the molecular, cellular, and tissue scales, allowing tissues to preserve their homeostasis and adapt to challenges.
In contrast, dysregulated or pathological stretching can induce damage and tissue fragilisation.
Many mechanisms have been described for the repair of epithelial tissues across a range of time-scales.
In this review, we present the timescales of (i) physiological cyclic loading regimes, (ii) strain-regulated remodelling and damage accumulation, and (iii) repair mechanisms in epithelial tissues.
We discuss how fatigue in biological tissues differs from synthetic materials, in that damage can be partially or fully reversed by repair mechanisms acting on timescales shorter than cyclic loading.
We highlight that timescales are critical to understanding the interplay between damage and repair in tissues that experience cyclic loading, opening up new avenues for exploring soft tissue homeostasis.
We consider first a homogeneous fiber bundle model where all the fibers have got the same stress threshold beyond which all fail simultaneously in absence of noise.
At finite noise, the bundle acquires a fatigue behavior due to the noise-induced failure probability at any stress.
We solve this dynamics of failure analytically and show that the average failure time of the bundle decreases exponentially as the stress increases.
We also determine the avalanche size distribution during such failure and find a power law decay.
We compare this fatigue behavior with that obtained phenomenologically for the nucleation of Griffith cracks.
Next we study numerically the fatigue behavior of random fiber bundles having simple distributions of individual fiber strengths, at stress less than the bundle's strength (beyond which it fails instantly).
The average failure time is again seen to decrease exponentially as the stress increases and the avalanche size distribution shows similar power law decay.
These results are also in broad agreement with experimental observations on fatigue in solids.
We believe, these observations regarding the failure time are useful for quantum breakdown phenomena in disordered systems.
Statistical distribution of switching times is a key information necessary to describe the dynamic response of a polycrystalline bulk ferroelectric to an applied electric field.
The Inhomogeneous Field Mechanism (IFM) model offers a useful tool which allows extraction of this information from polarization switching measurements over a large time window.
In this paper, the model was further developed to account for the presence of non-switchable regions in fatigued materials.
Application of the IFM- analysis to bipolar electric cycling induced fatigue process of various lead-based and lead-free ferroelectric ceramics reveals different scenarios of property degradation.
Insight is gained into different underlying fatigue mechanisms inherent to the investigated systems.
Various engineering systems such as naval and aerial vehicles, offshore structures, and mechanical components of motorized systems, are exposed to fatigue failures due to stochastic loadings.
Methods for early failure prediction are essential for engineering, military, and civil applications.
In addition to the prediction of time to failure (TtF), uncertainty quantification (UQ) is of major importance for real-time decision-making purposes.
Usually, time domain or frequency domain methods are used for fatigue prediction, such as rainflow counting and Miner's rule or Dirlik's method.
However, those methods suffer from over-simplistic modeling and inaccurate failure predictions under stochastic loadings.
During the last years, several data-driven models were suggested for offline fatigue failure.
However, most of them are not capable of both accurate real-time fatigue prediction and UQ.
In the current work, a probabilistic data-driven model is introduced.
A hybrid architecture of a fully-connected artificial neural network (FC-ANN) and Gaussian process regression (GPR) is proposed to ensure enhanced predictive abilities and simultaneous UQ of the predicted TtF.
The real-time prediction and UQ performances of the suggested model are validated using both synthetic and experimental data.
This novel hybrid method is fully data-driven and extends the forecasting capabilities of existing time-domain and machine learning-based methods for fatigue prediction.
It paves the way towards the development of a preventive system that provides real-time safety and operational instructions and insights for structural health monitoring (SHM) purposes, allowing prevention of environmental damage, and loss of human lives.
The increasing complexity of software dependencies has led to the emergence of automated dependency management tools, such as Dependabot.
However, these tools often overwhelm developers with a high volume of alerts and notifications, leading to alert fatigue.
This paper presents a position on using Artificial Intelligence (AI) agents as dependency negotiators to reduce alert fatigue.
We then examine specific use cases where AI agents can facilitate dependency negotiations, such as when working with external dependencies or managing complex, multi-component systems.
Our findings highlight the need for more research on the design and evaluation of AI-driven dependency mediation mechanisms.
With a focus on ensuring transparency, explainability, and human trustworthiness in these GitHub software projects, our goal is to reduce alert fatigue to an extent that maintainers no longer feel overwhelmed and welcome pull requests just like any other contribution into their projects.
Structural elements made of laminated hardwood are increasingly used in timber engineering.
In this combined numerical and experimental approach, damage onset and propagation in uni-directional and cross-laminated samples out of European beech due to climatic changes are studied.
The inter- and intra-laminar damage evolution is characterized for various configurations adhesively bonded by three structural adhesive systems.
Typical situations are simulated by means of a comprehensive moisture-dependent non-linear rheological finite element model for wood with the capability to capture delaminations.
The simulations give insight into the role of different strain components such as visco-elastic, mechano-sorptive, plastic, and hygro-elastic deformations under changing moisture content in progressive damage and delamination.
We show the stress buildup under cyclic hygric loading resulting in hygro-fatigue and modify an analytical micro-mechanics of damage model, originally developed for cross-ply laminates, to describe the problem of moisture-induced damage in beech lamellae.
A representative volume element (RVE) based multi-scale method is proposed to investigate the mechanism of fatigue crack propagation by the molecular dynamics (MD) and the extended finite element methods(XFEM) in this study.
An atomic model of carbon steel plate is built to study the behavior of fatigue crack at the micro scale by MD method.
Then the RVE model for fatigue crack propagation should be built by fitting the data which was obtained from the MD result with the Paris law model.
Moreover, the effect of micro-structural defects including interstitial atoms, vacancies have also been considered in this study.
The results indicate that the micro-structural defects can deeply influence the values of Paris law constants and the life of the specimen can be evaluated by the proposed method.
Driver fatigue detection is increasingly recognized as critical for enhancing road safety.
This study introduces a method for detecting driver fatigue using the SEED-VIG dataset, a well-established benchmark in EEG-based vigilance analysis.
By employing advanced pattern recognition technologies, including machine learning and deep neural networks, EEG signals are meticulously analyzed to discern patterns indicative of fatigue.
This methodology combines feature extraction with a classification framework to improve the accuracy of fatigue detection.
The proposed NLMDA-Net reached an impressive accuracy of 83.71% in detecting fatigue from EEG signals by incorporating two novel attention modules designed specifically for EEG signals, the channel and depth attention modules.
NLMDA-Net effectively integrate features from multiple dimensions, resulting in improved classification performance.
This success stems from integrating temporal convolutions and attention mechanisms, which effectively interpret EEG data.
Designed to capture both temporal and spatial characteristics of EEG signals, deep learning classifiers have proven superior to traditional methods.
The results of this study reveal a substantial enhancement in detection rates over existing models, highlighting the efficacy of the proposed approach for practical applications.
The implications of this research are profound, extending beyond academic realms to inform the development of more sophisticated driver assistance systems.
Incorporating this fatigue detection algorithm into these systems could significantly reduce fatigue-related incidents on the road, thus fostering safer driving conditions.
This paper provides an exhaustive analysis of the dataset, methods employed, results obtained, and the potential real-world applications of the findings, aiming to contribute significantly to advancements in automotive safety.
Fatigue crack growth is decisive for the design of thin-walled structures such as fuselage shells of air planes.
The cold rolling process, used to produce the aluminium sheets this structure is made of, leads to anisotropic mechanical properties.
In this contribution, we simulate the fatigue crack growth with a phase-field model due to its superior ability to model arbitrary crack paths.
A fatigue variable based on the Local Strain Approach describes the progressive weakening of the crack resistance.
Anisotropy regarding the fracture toughness is included through a structural tensor in the crack surface density.
The model is parameterised for an aluminium AA2024-T351 sheet material. Validation with a set of experiments shows that the fitted model can reproduce key characteristics of a growing fatigue crack, including crack path direction and growth rate, considering the rolling direction.
In the design of offshore jacket foundations, fatigue life is crucial. Post-weld treatment has been proposed to enhance the fatigue performance of welded joints, where particularly high-frequency mechanical impact (HFMI) treatment has been shown to improve fatigue performance significantly.
Automated HFMI treatment has improved quality assurance and can lead to cost-effective design when combined with accurate fatigue life prediction.
However, the finite element method (FEM), commonly used for predicting fatigue life in complex or multi-axial joints, relies on a basic CAD depiction of the weld, failing to consider the actual weld geometry and defects.
Including the actual weld geometry in the FE model improves fatigue life prediction and possible crack location prediction but requires a digital reconstruction of the weld.
Current digital reconstruction methods are time-consuming or require specialised scanning equipment and potential component relocation.
The proposed framework instead uses an industrial manipulator combined with a line scanner to integrate digital reconstruction as part of the automated HFMI treatment setup.
This approach applies standard image processing, simple filtering techniques, and non-linear optimisation for aligning and merging overlapping scans.
A screened Poisson surface reconstruction finalises the 3D model to create a meshed surface.
The outcome is a generic, cost-effective, flexible, and rapid method that enables generic digital reconstruction of welded parts, aiding in component design, overall quality assurance, and documentation of the HFMI treatment.
Fatigue failure driven by stress gradients associated to casting defects was studied in two cast nickel-based superalloys.
The experimental campaign revealed complex damage phenomena linked to spongeous shrinkages, characterized by their intricate arrangement of defects in the material medium, forming defect clusters.
Multiple cracks were observed to initiate from defect volumes, coalescing with neighboring void surfaces along crystallographic planes.
Defects were characterized using X-ray computed tomography, and image-based finite element (FE) models were constructed as digital representations of each experimental sample explicitly containing all real casting defects.
Numerical simulations of these FE models under the same conditions as the experiments revealed that tortuous defects contain small ligaments where very high local stresses develop.
These ligaments initiate early cracks, but due to the limited stressed volumes, these cracks do not drive the life of the material. A thorough comparison of simulations with experiments led to the development of an original method to define stressed volumes and address small ligaments.
Finally, a novel energy-based non-local model was proposed, using two parameters to predict the fatigue lives of samples containing casting defects at the mesoscopic scale.
The model was validated against samples with varying porosity levels, sizes, and geometries, accurately predicting fatigue lives within a factor of 3 compared to experimental results.
This new approach generalizes the application of non-local methods to real casting defects by considering their shape and stressed volumes to estimate fatigue properties.
Practical determination of physical recovery after intense exercise is a challenging topic that must include mechanical aspects as well as cognitive ones because most of physical sport activities, as well as professional activities (including brain computer interface-operated systems), require good shape in both of them.
This paper presents a new online handwritten database of 20 healthy subjects.
The main goal was to study the influence of several physical exercise stimuli in different handwritten tasks and to evaluate the recovery after strenuous exercise.
To this aim, they performed different handwritten tasks before and after physical exercise as well as other measurements such as metabolic and mechanical fatigue assessment.
Experimental results showed that although a fast mechanical recovery happens and can be measured by lactate concentrations and mechanical fatigue, this is not the case when cognitive effort is required.
Handwriting analysis revealed that statistical differences exist on handwriting performance even after lactate concentration and mechanical assessment recovery.
Conclusions: This points out a necessity of more recovering time in sport and professional activities than those measured in classic ways.
In a recent very interesting and illuminating proposal, Yao et al. (2014) have discussed the use of the strain energy release rate (SERR) as a parameter to characterize fatigue delamination growth in composite materials.
They consider fatigue delamination data strongly affected by R-curve behaviour due to fibres bridging and argue that a better approach is to correlate the crack advance with the total work per cycle measured in the testing machine.
This seems to work better than estimating the compliance as a linear fit of experimental curves from Modified Compliance Calibration ASTM standards equations for the SERR in the classical Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics framework.
We show however that if we assume indeed linear behaviour (i.e. LEFM), the approach they introduce is perfectly equivalent to the SERR one, i.e. Paris type of laws.
As well known form Barenblatt and Botvina, fatigue crack growth is a weak form of scaling, and it gives Paris classical dependence only when the crack is much longer than any other characteristic sizes.
Paris' law is not a fundamental law of physics, is not an energy balance equation like Griffith, and strong size effects due to cohesive zones have been found already in concrete by Bazant.
The proposal is very simple, and interesting as it would seem to suggest that a proper scaling with a cohesive model at crack tip could be predicted, although this doesn't seem to have been attempted in the Literature.
The main drawback of the present proposal is that it is not predictive, but purely observational, as it requires the actual measurement of work input during the fatigue process.
Additive manufacturing (AM) has enabled the fabrication of extremely complex components such as porous metallic lattices, which have applications in aerospace, automotive, and in particular biomedical devices.
The fatigue resistance of these materials is currently an important limitation however, due to manufacturing defects such as semi-fused particles and weld lines.
Here Hirtisation$^\circledR$ is used for post-processing of Ti-6Al-4V lattices, reducing the strut surface roughness (Sa) from 12 to 6 $μ$m, removing all visible semi-fused particles.
The evenness of this treatment in lattices with $ρ/ρ_{s}$ up to 18.3% and treatment depth of 6.5 mm was assessed, finding no evidence of reduced effectiveness on internal surfaces.
After normalising to quasi-static mechanical properties to account for material losses during hirtisation (34-37% reduction in strut diameter), the fatigue properties show a marked improvement due to the reduction in surface roughness.
Normalised high cycle fatigue strength ($σ_{f,10^{6}}/σ_{y}$) increased from around 0.1 to 0.16-0.21 after hirtisation, an average increase of 80%.
For orthopaedic implant devices where matching the stiffness of surrounding bone is crucial, the $σ_{f}/E$ ratio is a key metric.
After hirtisation the $σ_{f}/E$ ratio increased by 90%, enabling design of stiffness matched implant materials with greater fatigue strength.
This work demonstrates that hirtisation is an effective method for improving the surface roughness of porous lattice materials, thereby enhancing their fatigue performance.
This article presents a novel, robust and efficient framework for fatigue crack-propagation that combines the principles of Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics (LEFM) with phase-field fracture (PFF).
Contrary to cycle-by-cycle PFF approaches, this work relies on a single simulation and uses standard crack propagation models such as Paris' law for the material response, simplifying its parametrization.
The core of the methodology is the numerical evaluation of the derivative of a specimen's compliance with respect to the crack area.
To retrieve this compliance the framework relies on a PFF-FEM simulation, controlled imposing a monotonic crack growth.
This control of the loading process is done by a new crack-control scheme which allows to robustly trace the complete equilibrium path of a crack, capturing complex instabilities.
The specimen's compliance obtained from the PFF simulation enables the integration of Paris' law to predict fatigue life.
The proposed methodology is first validated through a series of benchmarks with analytical solutions to demonstrate its accuracy.
The framework is then applied to more complex geometries where the crack path is unknown, showing a very good agreement with experimental results of both crack paths and fatigue life.
Time history data collected from a Direct Current Potential Drop (DCPD) fatigue experiment at a range of temperatures was used to train a Bidirectional Long-Short Term Memory Neural Network (BiLSTM) model.
The model was trained on high sampling rate experimental data from crack initiation up through the Paris regime.
The BiLSTM model was able to predict the progressive crack extension at intermediate temperatures and stress intensities.
The model was able to reproduce crack jumps and overall crack progression.
The BiLSTM model demonstrated the potential to be used as a tool for future investigation into fundamental mechanisms such as high-temperature oxidation and new damage models.
A hybrid hydropower power plant is a conventional HydroPower Plant (HPP) augmented with a Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) to decrease the wear and tear of sensitive mechanical components and improve the reliability and regulation performance of the overall plant.
A central task of controlling hybrid power plants is determining how the total power set-point should be split between the BESS and the hybridized unit (power set-point splitting) as a function of the operational objectives.
This paper describes a Model Predictive Control (MPC) framework for hybrid medium- and high-head plants to determine the power set-point of the hydropower unit and the BESS.
The splitting policy relies on an explicit formulation of the mechanical loads incurred by the HPP's penstock, which can be damaged due to fatigue when providing regulation services to the grid.
By filtering out from the HPP's power set-point the components conducive to excess penstock fatigue and properly controlling the BESS, the proposed MPC is able to maintain the same level of regulation performance while significantly decreasing damages to the hydraulic conduits.
A proof-of-concept by simulations is provided considering a 230 MW medium-head hydropower plant.
We study the non-linear dynamics and failure statistics of a coupled-field fatigue damage evolution model.
We develop a methodology to derive averaged damage evolution rate laws from such models.
We show that such rate laws reduce life-cycle simulation times by orders of magnitude and permit dynamical systems analysis of long-time behavior, including failure time statistics.
We use the averaged damage rate laws to study 1 DOF and 2 DOF damage evolution models.
We identify parameter regimes in which the systems behave like a brittle material and show that the relative variability for failure times is high for such cases.
We also use the averaged rate laws to construct damage evolution phase portraits for the 2 DOF system and use insights derived from them to understand failure time and location statistics.
We show that, for brittle materials, as the relative variability in failure time increases, the variability in failure location decreases.
The displacement of conventional generation in favor of stochastic renewable requires increasing regulation duties from the remaining dispatchable resources.
In high- and medium-head hydropower plants (HPPs), providing regulation services to the grid and frequently changing the plant's set-point causes water hammer, which engenders pressure and stress transients within the pressurized conduits, especially the penstock, damaging it in the long run.
This paper proposes a model predictive control (MPC) that explicitly models the hydraulic transients within the penstock.
It achieves to reduce the mechanical loads on the penstock wall, and, consequently, fatigue effectively.
Thanks to a suitable linearization of the plant model, the optimization problem underlying the MPC scheme is convex and can be solved with off-the-shelf optimization libraries.
The performance of the proposed controller is tested with numerical simulations on a 230MW medium-head HPP with Francis turbine providing primary frequency control.
Simulation results show substantially reduced penstock fatigue, existing approaches outperformed, and problem resolution times compatible with real-time control requirements.
The rainflow counting algorithm for material fatigue is both simple to implement and extraordinarily successful for predicting material failure times.
However, it neglects memory effects and time-ordering dependence, and therefore runs into difficulties dealing with highly intermittent or transient stochastic loads with heavy tailed distributions.
Such loads appear frequently in a wide range of applications in ocean and mechanical engineering, such as wind turbines and offshore structures.
In this work we employ the Serebrinsky-Ortiz cohesive envelope model for material fatigue to characterize the effects of load intermittency on the fatigue-crack nucleation time.
We first formulate efficient numerical integration schemes, which allow for the direct characterization of the fatigue life in terms of any given load time-series.
Subsequently, we consider the case of stochastic intermittent loads with given statistical characteristics.
To overcome the need for expensive Monte-Carlo simulations, we formulate the fatigue life as an up-crossing problem of the coherent envelope.
Assuming statistical independence for the large intermittent spikes and using probabilistic arguments we derive closed expressions for the up-crossing properties of the coherent envelope and obtain analytical approximations for the probability mass function of the failure time.
The analytical expressions are derived directly in terms of the probability density function of the load, as well as the coherent envelope.
We examine the accuracy of the analytical approximations and compare the predicted failure time with the standard rainflow algorithm for various loads.
Finally, we use the analytical expressions to examine the robustness of the derived probability distribution for the failure time with respect to the coherent envelope geometrical properties.
Strong strain localisation in the form of shear banding is key to the failure mechanism.
We characterise in detail the dependence of the number of cycles N* before failure on the amplitude of imposed strain, the working temperature, and the degree to which the sample is annealed prior to shear.
The response of a vibrating beam to a force depends on many physical parameters including those determined by material properties.
Damage caused by fatigue or cracks result in local reductions in stiffness parameters and may drastically alter the response of the beam.
Data obtained from the vibrating beam are often subject to uncertainties and/or errors typically modeled using probability densities.
The goal of this paper is to estimate and quantify the uncertainty in damage modeled as a local reduction in stiffness using uncertain data.
We present various frameworks and methods for solving this parameter determination problem.
We also describe a mathematical analysis to determine and compute useful output data for each method.
We apply the various methods in a specified sequence that allows us to interface the various inputs and outputs of these methods in order to enhance the inferences drawn from the numerical results obtained from each method.
Numerical results are presented using both simulated and experimentally obtained data from physically damaged beams.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to compare the surface finish and mechanical performance of a specific model of prosthetic screw used for direct restorations manufactured by thread rolling and cutting.
Finally, linear regression models and 95% interval confidence bands were calculated and compared through ANCOVA for fatigue tests while the t test was used for statistical comparisons (a=.05).
We propose the concept of autonomous self-damaging in "smart" composite materials, controlled by activation of added nanosize "damaging" capsules.
Percolation-type modeling approach earlier applied to the related concept of self-healing materials, is used to investigate the behavior of the initial material's fatigue.
We aim at achieving a relatively sharp drop in the material's integrity after some initial limited fatigue develops in the course of the sample's usage.
Our theoretical study considers a two-dimensional lattice model and involves Monte Carlo simulations of the connectivity and conductance in the high-connectivity regime of percolation.
We give several examples of local capsule-lattice and capsule-capsule activation rules and show that the desired self-damaging property can only be obtained with rather sophisticated "smart" material's response involving not just damaging but also healing capsules.
The derivation of Birnbaum-Saunders (BS) fatigue-life distribution is based on the asymptotic normality of crack damages' partial sums.
We address the situation when this fails and the crack damages possess heavy-tailed distribution.
In this note, a general class of fatigue-life distributions of BS type is proposed.
Homogenization is a technique for the analysis of complex materials by replacing them with equivalent homogeneous materials that exhibit similar properties.
By constructing a three-dimensional (3D) porous material model and employing homogenization technique, effective properties of the hydrogel pore structure were calculated.
It is found that the microstructure of hyperelastic materials has considerable influence on their macroscopic mechanical properties, pores with a radius of up to 65 microns at a small strain can significantly reinforce material structure and improve its fatigue resistance.
This work highlights the potential of engineering pore structures for the enhancement of mchanical properties and durability of hydrogels.
Using chains of bistable springs, a model is derived to investigate the plastic behavior of carbon nanotube arrays with damage.
We study the preconditioning effect due to the loading history by computing analytically the stress-strain pattern corresponding to a fatigue-type damage of the structure.
We identify the convergence of the discrete response to the limiting case of infinitely many springs, both analytically in the framework of Gamma-convergence, as well as numerically.
Topology optimization (TO) is a well-established methodology for structural design under user-defined constraints, e.g. minimum volume and maximum stiffness.
However, such methods have traditionally been applied to static, deterministic loading, in which modulus, position and direction are known and invariant.
This is against the probabilistic load combination used in the structural engineering designs, and entails two important shortcomings.
The first one is related to maintenance and reliability: static loading fails to consider naturally occurring uncertainties in the loading process, measurements or regular service; also ignoring (quantitatively) unforeseen phenomena such as vibrations, and the material's behavior is assumed linear isotropic, ignoring fatigue, plasticity and anisotropy in functionally-graded materials.
The second one concerns optimality itself: often times, the structure presented as "optimal" in fact over-estimates loading and thus wastes material by exceeding its real needs and/or distributing it poorly throughout the design dominion.
In this article, a probabilistic framework is presented: uncertain and pseudo-dynamic loading is introduced to create robust topologies via a reinforced SIMP scheme with embedded penalization addressing fatigue damage, layer direction, mechanical response (traction/compression) and yield limit (von Mises equivalent stress).
This computationally efficient framework is applied to various loading scenarios, generating diverse designs for the same volume fraction constraint with improved and more realistic performances.
Under the proposed method, if loads are permanent and damage isotropic, the methodology converges to the traditional (deterministic) topological optimization results.
Future ramifications of this work are pondered, especially regarding metamaterial design.
We study the domain structure in ferroelectric thin films with a `passive' layer (material with damaged ferroelectric properties) at the interface between the film and electrodes within a continuous medium approximation.
An abrupt transition from a monodomain to a polydomain state has been found with the increase of the `passive' layer thickness $d$.
The domain width changes very quickly at the transition (exponentially with $d^{-2}$).
We have estimated the dielectric response $dP/dE$ (the slope of the hysteresis loop) in the `fatigued' multidomain state and found that it is in agreement with experiment, assuming realistic parameters of the layer.
We derive a simple universal relation for the dielectric response, which scales as $1/d$, involving only the properties of the passive layer.
This relation qualitatively reproduces the evolution of the hysteresis loop in fatigued samples and it could be tested with controlled experiments.
It is expected that the coercive field should increase with decreasing lateral size of the film.
We believe that specific properties of the domain structure under bias voltage in ferroelectrics with a passive layer can resolve the long-standing `paradox of the coercive field'.
Ductile damage models and cohesive laws incorporate the material plasticity entailing the growth of irrecoverable deformations even after complete failure.
This unrealistic growth remains concealed until the unilateral effects arising from the crack closure emerge.
We address this issue by proposing a new strategy to cope with the entire process of failure, from the very inception in the form of diffuse damage to the final stage, i.e. the emergence of sharp cracks.
To this end, we introduce a new strain field, termed discontinuity strain, to the conventional additive strain decomposition to account for discontinuities in a continuous sense so that the standard principle of virtual work applies.
We treat this strain field similar to a strong discontinuity, yet without introducing new kinematic variables and nonlinear boundary conditions.
In this paper, we demonstrate the effectiveness of this new strategy at a simple ductile damage constitutive model.
The model uses a scalar damage index to control the degradation process.
The discontinuity strain field is injected into the strain decomposition if this damage index exceeds a certain threshold.
The threshold corresponds to the limit at which the induced imperfections merge and form a discrete crack.
With three-point bending tests under pure mode I and mixed-mode conditions, we demonstrate that this augmentation does not show the early crack closure artifact which is wrongly predicted by plastic damage formulations at load reversal. We also use the concrete damaged plasticity model provided in Abaqus commercial finite element program for our comparison.
Lastly, a high-intensity low-cycle fatigue test demonstrates the unilateral effects resulting from the complete closure of the induced crack.
Evaluating impact-induced damage in composite materials under varying temperature conditions is essential for ensuring structural integrity and reliable performance in aerospace, polar, and other extreme-environment applications.
As matrix brittleness increases at low temperatures, damage mechanisms shift: impact events that produce only minor delaminations at ambient conditions can trigger extensive matrix cracking, fiber/matrix debonding, or interfacial failure under severe cold loads, thereby degrading residual strength and fatigue life.
Precision detection and quantification of subsurface damage features (e.g., delamination area, crack morphology, interface separation) are critical for subsequent mechanical characterization and life prediction.
In this study, infrared thermography (IRT) coupled with a newly developed frequency multiplexed photothermal correlation tomography (FM-PCT) is employed to capture three-dimensional subsurface damage signatures with depth resolution approaching that of X-ray micro-computed tomography.
However, the inherent limitations of IRT, including restricted frame rate and lateral thermal diffusion, reduce spatial resolution and thus the accuracy of damage size measurement.
To address this, we develop a new transfer learning-based infrared super-resolution generative adversarial network (IR-SRGAN) that enhances both lateral and depth-resolved imaging fidelity based on limited thermographic datasets.
Purpose: Critical torque (CT) and work done above it (W') are key predictors of exercise performance associated with neuromuscular fatigue.
The aim of the present study was to understand the role of the metabolic cost of exercise in determining exercise tolerance, CT and W' and the mechanisms of neuromuscular fatigue.Methods: Twelve subjects performed four knee extension time-trials (6, 8, 10, and 12-minutes) using eccentric, isometric, or concentric contractions (3 s-on/2 s-off at 90{\textdegree} or 30{\textdegree}/s) to modulate the metabolic cost of exercise.
Exercise performance was quantified by total impulse and mean torque.
CT and W' were determined using the linear relationship between total impulse and contraction time.
Cardiometabolic, neuromuscular, and ventilatory responses were quantified.
Neuromuscular function was evaluated by maximal voluntary contraction, resting potentiated single/doublet electrical stimulations, and superimposed single electrical stimulation to quantify neuromuscular, peripheral, and central fatigue, respectively.Results: Compared to isometric exercise, total impulse (+36 $\pm$ 21%; P < 0.001), CT (+27 $\pm$ 30%; P < 0.001), and W' (+67 $\pm$ 99%; P < 0.001) were increased during eccentric exercise whereas total impulse (-25 $\pm$ 7%; P < 0.001), critical torque (-26 $\pm$ 15%; P < 0.001) and W' (-18 $\pm$ 19%; P < 0.001) were reduced in concentric exercise.
Conversely, the metabolic response and the degree of peripheral fatigue were reduced during eccentric exercise whereas they were increased during concentric exercise.
CT was negatively associated with oxygen consumption gain (R2 = 0.636; P < 0.001) and W' was negatively associated with rates of neuromuscular and peripheral fatigue indices (R2 = [0.252-0.880]; P < 0.001).Conclusions: The contraction mode influenced both CT and W', and consequently exercise tolerance, indicating that the metabolic cost of contraction played a key role.
Synthetic waxes produced by standard and registered processes may be used to manufacture Warm Mix Asphalt (WMA), which is a modified asphalt concrete produced, applied and compacted at temperatures below those typically required.
This feature leads to environmental benefits, such as reduced energy consumption, gas and fume emissions, as well as to economic/operational advantages, such as lower production costs and greater hauling distances for extended construction seasons with tighter schedules.
The present article serves to compare the mechanical performance of a WMA produced by adding synthetic wax with a traditional Hot Mix Asphalt (HMA) specimen, in terms of shear fatigue response and both complex and stiffness moduli.
The experimental results and related modeling work demonstrate that adding synthetic wax into the WMA composition does not hinder either the destructive or non-destructive performance of an HMA, and this finding is corroborated by respectively measuring fatigue life and stiffness.
This paper introduces a simple framework for accurately predicting the fatigue lifetime of notched components by employing various machine learning algorithms applied to a wide range of materials, loading conditions, notch geometries, and fatigue lives.
Traditional approaches for this task have relied on empirical relationships involving one of the mechanical properties, such as stress, strain, or energy.
This study goes further by exploring which mechanical property serves as a better measure.
The key idea of the framework is to use the gradient of the mechanical properties (stress, strain, and energy) to distinguish between different notch geometries.
To demonstrate the accuracy and broad applicability of the framework, it is initially validated using isotropic materials, subsequently applied to samples produced through additive manufacturing techniques, and ultimately tested on carbon fiber laminated composites.
The research demonstrates that the gradient of all three measures can be effectively employed to estimate fatigue lifetime, with stress-based predictions exhibiting the highest accuracy.
Among the machine learning algorithms investigated, Gradient Boosting and Random Forest yield the most successful results.
A noteworthy finding is the significant improvement in prediction accuracy achieved by incorporating new data generated based on the Basquin equation.
The isolation of infectious individuals is a key measure of public health for the control of communicable diseases.
However, involving a strong perturbation of daily life, it often causes psychosocial distress, and severe financial and social costs.
These may act as mechanisms limiting the adoption of the measure in the first place or the adherence throughout its full duration.
In addition, difficulty of recognizing mild symptoms or lack of symptoms may impact awareness of the infection and further limit adoption.
Here, we study an epidemic model on a network of contacts accounting for limited adherence and delayed awareness to self-isolation, along with fatigue causing overhasty termination.
The model allows us to estimate the role of each ingredient and analyze the tradeoff between adherence and duration of self-isolation.
We find that the epidemic threshold is very sensitive to an effective compliance that combines the effects of imperfect adherence, delayed awareness and fatigue.
If adherence improves for shorter quarantine periods, there exists an optimal duration of isolation, shorter than the infectious period.
However, heterogeneities in the connectivity pattern, coupled to a reduced compliance for highly active individuals, may almost completely offset the effectiveness of self-isolation measures on the control of the epidemic.
Information and communication technologies (ICTs) are generally assumed to save time and energy, yet user fatigue due to ICT use is assumed to be on the rise.
The question about the effects of ICT use on human energy has sparked increased research interest in recent years. however, the course is complicated by the fact that the conceptualization of human energy is extremely diverse.
The aim of this paper is therefore twofold.
First, we provide a conceptual framework and classification for subjective energy concepts and reflect on the theoretical embedding of technology within the theories on subjective energy.
Second, we review the leading empirical literature on the relationship between ICT use and eight different subjective energy concepts prominent in different disciplines.
We also include the new phenomena of social networking sites (SNS) exhaustion and SNS fatigue.
With this, we aim to consolidate the existing research, illuminate the gaps and provide a conceptual baseline for future research on the relationship between ICT use and subjective energy of ICT users.
We show that ICT use has predominantly negative effect on users' energy, especially in organizational contexts, and show the main patterns and mechanisms through which technology drains as well as energizes users.
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome is a protracted illness condition (lasting even years) appearing with strong flu symptoms and systemic defiances by the immune system.
Here, by means of statistical mechanics techniques, we study the most widely accepted picture for its genesis, namely a persistent acute mononucleosis infection, and we show how such infection may drive the immune system toward an out-of-equilibrium metastable state displaying chronic activation of both humoral and cellular responses (a state of full inflammation without a direct "causes-effect" reason).
By exploiting a bridge with a neural scenario, we mirror killer lymphocytes $T_K$ and $B$ cells to neurons and helper lymphocytes $T_{H_1},T_{H_2}$ to synapses, hence showing that the immune system may experience the Pavlov conditional reflex phenomenon: if the exposition to a stimulus (EBV antigens) lasts for too long, strong internal correlations among $B,T_K,T_H$ may develop ultimately resulting in a persistent activation even though the stimulus itself is removed.
These outcomes are corroborated by several experimental findings.
As of November 2020, the number of COVID-19 cases is increasing rapidly in many countries.
In Europe, the virus spread slowed considerably in the late spring due to strict lockdown, but a second wave of the pandemic grew throughout the fall.
In this study, we first reconstruct the time evolution of the effective reproduction numbers ${\cal R}(t)$ for each country by integrating the equations of the classic SIR model.
We cluster countries based on the estimated ${\cal R}(t)$ through a suitable time series dissimilarity.
The result suggests that simple dynamical mechanisms determine how countries respond to changes in COVID-19 case counts.
Inspired by these results, we extend the SIR model to include a social response to explain the number $X(t)$ of new confirmed daily cases.
As a first-order model, we assume that the social response is on the form $d_t{\cal R}=-ν(X-X^*)$, where $X^*$ is a threshold for response.
The response rate $ν$ depends on whether $X^*$ is below or above this threshold, on three parameters $ν_1,\;ν_2,\,ν_3,$, and on $t$.
When $X<X^*$, $ν= ν_1$, describes the effect of relaxed intervention when the incidence rate is low.
When $X>X^*$, $ν=ν_2\exp{(-ν_3t)}$, models the impact of interventions when incidence rate is high.
The parameter $ν_3$ represents the fatigue, i.e., the reduced effect of intervention as time passes.
The proposed model reproduces typical evolving patterns of COVID-19 epidemic waves observed in many countries.
Estimating the parameters $ν_1,\,ν_2,\,ν_3$ and initial conditions, such as ${\cal R}_0$, for different countries helps to identify important dynamics in their social responses.
One conclusion is that the leading cause of the strong second wave in Europe in the fall of 2020 was not the relaxation of interventions during the summer, but rather the general fatigue to interventions developing in the fall.
Random microstructures of heterogeneous materials play a crucial role in the material macroscopic behavior and in predictions of its effective properties.
A common approach to modeling random multiphase materials is to develop so-called surrogate models approximating statistical features of the material. However, the surrogate models used in fatigue analysis usually employ simple microstructure, consisting of ideal geometries such as ellipsoidal inclusions, which generally does not capture complex geometries.
In this paper, we introduce a simple but flexible surrogate microstructure model for two-phase materials through a level-cut of a Gaussian random field with covariance of Matérn class.
Such parametrization of the covariance function allows for the representation of a few key design parameters while representing the geometry of inclusions in a more general setting for a large class of random heterogeneous two-phase media.
In addition to the traditional morphology descriptors such as porosity, size and aspect ratio, it provides control of the regularity of the inclusions interface and sphericity.
These parameters are estimated from a small number of real material images using Bayesian inversion.
An efficient process of evaluating the samples, based on the Fast Fourier Transform, makes possible the use of Monte-Carlo methods to estimate statistical properties for the quantities of interest in a given material class.
We demonstrate the overall framework of the use of the surrogate material model in application to the uncertainty quantification in fatigue analysis, its feasibility and efficiency, and its role in the microstructure design.
In driving scenarios, automobile active safety systems are increasingly incorporating deep learning technology.
These systems typically need to handle multiple tasks simultaneously, such as detecting fatigue driving and recognizing the driver's identity.
However, the traditional parallel-style approach of combining multiple single-task models tends to waste resources when dealing with similar tasks.
Therefore, we propose a novel tree-style multi-task modeling approach for multi-task learning, which rooted at a shared backbone, more dedicated separate module branches are appended as the model pipeline goes deeper.
Following the tree-style approach, we propose a multi-task learning model for simultaneously performing driver fatigue detection and face recognition for identifying a driver.
This model shares a common feature extraction backbone module, with further separated feature extraction and classification module branches.
The dedicated branches exploit and combine spatial and channel attention mechanisms to generate space-channel fused-attention enhanced features, leading to improved detection performance.
As only single-task datasets are available, we introduce techniques including alternating updation and gradient accumulation for training our multi-task model using only the single-task datasets.
The effectiveness of our tree-style multi-task learning model is verified through extensive validations.
The standard stress-based approach to fatigue is based on the use of S-N curves.
They are obtained by applying cyclic loading of constant amplitude $S$ to identical and standardised specimens until they fail.
The S-N curves actually depend on a reference probability $p$: for a given cycle amplitude $S$, they provide the number of cycles at which a proportion $p$ of specimens have failed.
Based on the S-N curves, Miner's rule is next used to predict the number of cycles to failure of a specimen subjected to cyclic loading with variable amplitude.
In this article, we present a probabilistic formulation of Miner's rule, which is based on the introduction of the notion of health of a specimen.
We show the consistency of that new formulation with the standard approaches, thereby providing a precise probabilistic interpretation of these.
Explicit formulas are derived in the case of the Weibull--Basquin model.
We next turn to the case of a complete mechanical structure: taking into account size effects, and using the weakest link principle, we establish formulas for the survival probability of the structure.
We illustrate our results by numerical simulations on a I-steel beam, for which we compute survival probabilities and density of failure point.
We also show how to efficiently approximate these quantities using the Laplace method.
Materials with negative Poisson ratio have the counter-intuitive property of expanding laterally when they are stretched longitudinally.
They are accordingly termed auxetic, from the Greek auxesis meaning to increase.
Experimental studies have demonstrated auxetic materials to have superior material properties, compared with conventional ones.
These include synclastic curvature, increased acoustic absorption, increased resilience to material fatigue, and increased resistance to mechanical failure.
Until now, the latter observations have remained poorly understood theoretically.
With this motivation, the contributions of this work are twofold.
First, we elucidate analytically the way in which stress propagates spatially across a material following a localised plastic failure event, finding a significantly reduced stress propagation in auxetic materials compared with conventional ones.
In this way, a plastic failure event occurring in one part of a material has a reduced tendency to trigger knock-on plastic events in neighbouring regions.
Second, via the numerical simulation of a lattice elastoplastic model, we demonstrate a key consequence of this reduced stress propagation to be an increased resistance to mechanical failure.
This is seen not only via an increase in the externally measured yield strain, but also via a decreased tendency for plastic damage to percolate internally across a sample in catastrophic system-spanning clusters.
To design increasingly tough, resilient, and fatigue-resistant elastomers and hydrogels, the relationship between controllable network parameters at the molecular level to macroscopic quantities that govern damage and failure must be established.
Constitutive models based upon statistical mechanics have used variants of the freely jointed chain (FJC) model with rigid links.
However, since the free energy state of a polymer chain is dominated by enthalpic bond distortion effects as the chain approaches its rupture point, bond extensibility ought to be accounted for if the model is intended to capture chain rupture.
To that end, a new bond potential is supplemented to the FJC model (as derived in the uFJC framework of Buche and colleagues), which we have extended to yield a tractable, closed-form model that is amenable to constitutive model development.
Inspired by the asymptotically matched uFJC model response, a simple, quasi-polynomial, and anharmonic bond potential energy function is derived.
Using this bond potential, approximate yet highly-accurate analytical functions for bond stretch and chain force dependent upon chain stretch are established.
Then, using this polymer chain model, a stochastic thermal fluctuation-driven chain rupture framework is developed.
This framework is based upon a force-modified tilted bond potential that accounts for distortional bond potential energy, allowing for the calculation of dissipated chain scission energy.
The model is fit to single-chain mechanical response data collected from atomic force microscopy tensile tests for validation and to glean deeper insight into the molecular physics taking place.
Due to their analytical nature, this polymer chain model and the associated rupture framework can be straightforwardly implemented in finite element models accounting for fracture and fatigue in polydisperse elastomer networks.
Services and warranties of large fleets of engineering assets is a very profitable business.
The success of companies in that area is often related to predictive maintenance driven by advanced analytics.
Therefore, accurate modeling, as a way to understand how the complex interactions between operating conditions and component capability define useful life, is key for services profitability.
Unfortunately, building prognosis models for large fleets is a daunting task as factors such as duty cycle variation, harsh environments, inadequate maintenance, and problems with mass production can lead to large discrepancies between designed and observed useful lives.
This paper introduces a novel physics-informed neural network approach to prognosis by extending recurrent neural networks to cumulative damage models.
We propose a new recurrent neural network cell designed to merge physics-informed and data-driven layers.
With that, engineers and scientists have the chance to use physics-informed layers to model parts that are well understood (e.g., fatigue crack growth) and use data-driven layers to model parts that are poorly characterized (e.g., internal loads).
A simple numerical experiment is used to present the main features of the proposed physics-informed recurrent neural network for damage accumulation.
The test problem consist of predicting fatigue crack length for a synthetic fleet of airplanes subject to different mission mixes.
The model is trained using full observation inputs (far-field loads) and very limited observation of outputs (crack length at inspection for only a portion of the fleet).
The results demonstrate that our proposed hybrid physics-informed recurrent neural network is able to accurately model fatigue crack growth even when the observed distribution of crack length does not match with the (unobservable) fleet distribution.
Applications of Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) combined with Machine Learning (ML) techniques enhance real-time performance tracking and increase structural integrity awareness of civil, aerospace and automotive infrastructures.
This SHM-ML synergy has gained popularity in the last years thanks to the anticipation of maintenance provided by arising ML algorithms and their ability of handling large quantities of data and considering their influence in the problem.
In this paper we develop a novel ML nearest-neighbors-alike algorithm based on the principle of maximum entropy to predict fatigue damage (Palmgren-Miner index) in composite materials by processing the signals of Lamb Waves -- a non-destructive SHM technique -- with other meaningful features such as layup parameters and stiffness matrices calculated from the Classical Laminate Theory (CLT).
The full data analysis cycle is applied to a dataset of delamination experiments in composites.
The predictions achieve a good level of accuracy, similar to other ML algorithms, e.g. Neural Networks or Gradient-Boosted Trees, and computation times are of the same order of magnitude.
The key advantages of our proposal are: (1) The automatic determination of all the parameters involved in the prediction, so no hyperparameters have to be set beforehand, which saves time devoted to hypertuning the model and also represents an advantage for autonomous, self-supervised SHM.
(2) No training is required, which, in an \textit{online learning} context where streams of data are fed continuously to the model, avoids repeated training -- essential for reliable real-time, continuous monitoring.
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) and Fibromyalgia (FM) often co-occur as medically unexplained conditions linked to disrupted physiological regulation, including altered sleep.
Building on the work of Kishi et al. (2011), who identified differences in sleep-stage transitions in women with CFS and CFS+FM, we exploited the same strictly controlled clinical cohort using a Bayesian Network (BN) to quantify detailed patterns of sleep and its dynamics.
Our BN confirmed that sleep transitions are best described as a second-order process (Yetton et al., 2018), achieving a next-stage predictive accuracy of 70.6%, validated on two independent data sets with domain shifts (60.1-69.8% accuracy).
Notably, we demonstrated that sleep dynamics can reveal the actual diagnoses.
Our BN successfully differentiated healthy, CFS, and CFS+FM individuals, achieving an AUROC of 75.4%.
Using interventions, we quantified sleep alterations attributable specifically to CFS and CFS+FM, identifying changes in stage prevalence, durations, and first- and second-order transitions.
These findings reveal novel markers for CFS and CFS+FM in early-to-mid-adulthood women, offering insights into their physiological mechanisms and supporting their clinical differentiation.
Resourceful operation and design of robots is key for sustainable industrial automation.
This will be enabled by lightweight design along with time and energy optimal control of robotic manipulators.
Design and control of such systems is intertwined as the control must take into account inherent mechanical compliance while the design must accommodate the dynamic requirements demanded by the control.
As basis for such design optimization, a method for estimating the lifetime of elastic link robotic manipulators is presented.
This is applied to the geometry optimization of flexible serial manipulators performing pick-and-place operations, where the optimization objective is a combination of overall weight and vibration amplitudes.
The lifetime estimation draws from a fatigue analysis combining the rainflow counting algorithm and the method of critical cutting plane.
Tresca hypothesis is used to formulate an equivalent stress, and linear damage accumulation is assumed.
The final robot geometry is selected from a Pareto front as a tradeoff of lifetime and vibration characteristic.
The method is illustrated for a three degrees of freedom articulated robotic manipulator.
We consider the yielding behavior of amorphous solids under cyclic shear deformation and show that it can be mapped into a random walk in a confining potential with an absorbing boundary.
The resulting dynamics is governed by the first passage time into the absorbing state and suffices to capture the essential qualitative features recently observed in atomistic simulations of amorphous solids.
Our results provide insight into the mechanism underlying yielding and its robustness.
When the possibility of activated escape from absorbing states is added, it leads to a unique determination of a threshold energy and yield strain, suggesting thereby an appealing approach to understanding fatigue failure.
In this paper, we introduce a data-driven machine learning approach for modeling one-dimensional stress-strain behavior under cyclic loading, utilizing experimental data from the nickel-based Alloy 617.
The study employs uniaxial creep-fatigue test data acquired under various loading histories and compares two distinct neural network-based ODE models.
The first model, known as the black-box model, comprehensively describes the strain-stress relationship using a Neural ODE equation.
To interpret this black-box model, we apply the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems (SINDy) technique, transforming the black-box model into an equation-based model using symbolic regression.
The second model, the Neural flow rule model, incorporates Hooke's Law for the linear elastic component, with the nonlinear part characterized by a Neural ODE.
Both models are trained with experimental data to accurately reflect the observed stress-strain behavior.
We conduct a detailed comparison with the standard Chaboche model, which includes three back stresses.
Our results demonstrate that the neural network-based ODE models precisely capture the experimental creep-fatigue mechanical behavior, exceeding the standard Chaboche model's accuracy.
Furthermore, an interpretable model derived from the black-box neural ODE model through symbolic regression achieves accuracy comparable to the Chaboche model, enhancing its interpretability.
The results highlight the potential of neural network-based ODE models to depict complex creep-fatigue behavior, eliminating the necessity for experts to define a specific, material-focused model form.
Reversible covalent or supramolecular bonds play an important role in materials science and in biological systems.
The equilibrium between open and closed bonds and the association rate can be controlled thermally, chemically, by mechanical pulling, ultrasound or catalysts.
In practice, these intrinsic equilibrium methods either suffer from a limited range of tunability or may damage the system.
Here, we present a non-equilibrium strategy that exploits the dissipative properties of the system to control and change the dynamic properties of sacrificial and reversible networks.
We show theoretically and numerically how high-frequency mechanical oscillations of very low amplitude can open or close bonds.
This mechanism indicates how reversible bonds could alleviate mechanical fatigue of materials especially at low temperatures where they are fragile.
In another area, it suggests that the system can be actively modified by the application of ultrasound to induce gel-fluid transitions and to activate or deactivate adhesion properties.
It was shown that a material fatigue fracture diagram can be viewed as a locus of points with $σ$ and $\sqrt l$ coordinates' product equal to $K_{1c}/2$, and $σ$ and $l$ product -- to $G_{1c}/2$, where $K_{1c}$ and $G_{1c}$ are non-linear fracture mechanics force and energy criteria.
It was established that the average number of interatomic bonds destroyed within one alternate stress $\nabla_{1cs}$ cycle is directly proportional to $σ$ that is twice as large as a peak value of $σ^a$.
It was found that low-cycle fatigue is characterized by $σ>σ_{0.2}$ and $σ_{1cs}> 1$, high-cycle fatigue -- by $σ= σ_{0.2}$ and $\nabla_{1cs} = 1$, and giga-cycle fatigue -- by $σ< σ_{0.2}$ and $\nabla_{1cs} < 1$.
An individual interatomic bond cannot be destroyed part by part but as a single unit.
The latter means that in giga-cycle fatigue a single interatomic bond is destroyed within several cycles rather than within a single cycle.
The factors $F$ (collapsibility) and $R$ (resistibility) were proposed and mentioned as essential material physical constants.
The introduced notion $\nabla_{1cs}$ and the established linear nature of $\nabla_{1cs}$ relationship allow to: a) clarify the fatigue crack growth physical nature in low-, high- and giga-cycle fracture zones; b) determine the nature of a fatigue fracture diagram disruption; c) plot the fatigue fracture diagram using the results obtained in a single specimen cyclic strength test with a selected value of $σ\ge σ_{0.2}$.
For giga-cycle fatigue it is important (with similar purpose in mind) to determine this dependence for $σ< σ_{0.2}$.
It is recommended to use $G_{1c}$ criterion to find the $l_{cr}$ length value which in contrast to $K_{1c}$ has a clear physical nature.
Transmission lines, crucial to the power grid, are subjected to diverse environmental conditions such as wind, temperature, humidity, and pollution.
While these conditions represent a consistent impact on the transmission lines, certain unpredictable conditions such as unexpected high wind, wildfire, and icing pose catastrophic risks to the reliability and integrity of the transmission lines.
These factors in the presence of initial damage and electrical loads greatly affect the material properties.
In this paper, we develop a comprehensive thermo-electro-mechanical model to investigate the long-term effect of unexpected high wind, wildfire, and ice on transmission lines.
This study offers an in-depth perspective on temperature and damage evolution within the power lines by incorporating a phase field model for damage and fatigue, alongside thermal and electrical models.
We define a state function to assess the failure, considering damage and temperature.
We study three scenarios deterministically to establish a basic understanding and analyze the stochastic behavior using the Probabilistic Collocation Method (PCM).
We utilize PCM for forward uncertainty quantification, conducting sensitivity analysis, and evaluating the probability of failure.
This approach offers an in-depth examination of the potential risks associated with transmission lines under unfavorable circumstances.
Information processing networks are the result of local rewiring rules.
In many instances, such rules promote links where the activity at the two end nodes is positively correlated.
The conceptual problem we address is what network architecture prevails under such rules and how does the resulting network, in turn, constrain the dynamics.
We focus on a simple toy model that captures the interplay between link self-reinforcement and a Self-Organised Critical dynamics in a simple way.
Our main finding is that, under these conditions, a core of densely connected nodes forms spontaneously.
Moreover, we show that the appearance of such clustered state can be dynamically regulated by a fatigue mechanism, eventually giving rise to non-trivial avalanche exponents.
The failure of overhead transmission lines in the United States can lead to significant economic losses and widespread blackouts, affecting the lives of millions.
This study focuses on the reliability of transmission lines, specifically examining the effects of wind, ambient temperature, and current demands on lines, incorporating minimal and significant pre-existing damage.
We develop a Thermo-Electro-Mechanical Model to analyze the transmission line failures across sensitive and affected states of the United States, integrating historical data on wind and ambient temperature.
By combining numerical simulation with historical data analysis, our research assesses the impact of varying environmental conditions on the reliability of transmission lines.
Our methodology begins with a deterministic approach to model temperature and damage evolution, using phase-field modeling for fatigue and damage, coupled with electrical and thermal models.
Later, we adopt the Probability Collocation Method to investigate the stochastic behavior of the system, enhancing our understanding of uncertainties in model parameters, conducting sensitivity analysis, and estimating the probability of failures over time.
This approach allows for a comprehensive analysis of factors affecting transmission line reliability, contributing valuable insights into improving power line's resilience against environmental conditions.
This paper reviews the current state-of-the-art in the simulation of the mechanical behavior of polycrystalline materials by means of computational homogenization.
The key ingredients of this modelling strategy are presented in detail starting with the parameters needed to describe polycrystalline microstructures and the digital representation of such microstructures in a suitable format to perform computational homogenization.
The different crystal plasticity frameworks that can describe the physical mechanisms of deformation in single crystals (dislocation slip and twinning) at the microscopic level are presented next.
This is followed by the description of computational homogenization methods based on mean-field approximations by means of the viscoplastic self-consistent approach, or on the full-field simulation of the mechanical response of a representative polycrystalline volume element by means of the finite element method or the fast Fourier transform-based method.
Multiscale frameworks based on the combination of mean-field homogenization and the finite element method are presented next to model the plastic deformation of polycrystalline specimens of arbitrary geometry under complex mechanical loading.
Examples of application to predict the strength, fatigue life, damage, and texture evolution under different conditions are presented to illustrate the capabilities of the different models.
Finally, current challenges and future research directions in this field are summarized.
Recently, the Less In More Out device, a fluidically actuated soft total artificial heart was proposed.
This device uses arrays of pouch motors to achieve a positive fluidic lever when pneumatically actuated against physiological hemodynamic conditions.
Extensive experimental characterization demonstrated its potential; however, experiments alone cannot resolve the internal mechanical fields that govern device durability and performance.
Here, we develop a computational framework to investigate intrinsic device mechanics, such as stress concentrations, strain paths, and fatigue life, and to explore targeted design modifications that improve durability and efficiency.
We show that our model reproduces the nonlinear deformation and pressure-volume relationships measured experimentally under varying hemodynamic conditions.
Across designs, devices with fewer pouches deliver higher stroke volumes but exhibit up to 50% higher peak von Mises stresses, which reduces their fatigue life.
Our simulations further identify heat-sealed seams and buckling regions as durability-limiting features.
As a proof of concept, we vary the valve support aspect ratio and relative endocardial-epicardial pouch fabric compliance, reducing the peak von Mises stress by ~10% while maintaining identical physiological outputs and improving mechanical efficiency.
Overall, our framework enables detailed evaluation of stress hotspots, buckling, and fatigue life, and offers a foundation for optimizing artificial hearts and other fluidically actuated fabric-based soft robotic devices.
Integrity and reliability of a national power grid system are essential to society's development and security.
Among the power grid components, transmission lines are critical due to exposure and vulnerability to severe external conditions, including high winds, ice, and extreme temperatures.
The combined effects of external agents with high electrical load and presence of damage precursors greatly affects the conducting material's properties due to a thermal runaway cycle that accelerates the aging process.
In this paper, we develop a thermo-electro-mechanical model for long-term failure analysis of overhead transmission lines.
A phase-field model of damage and fatigue, coupled with electrical and thermal modules, provides a detailed description of the conductor's temperature evolution.
We define a limit state function based on maximum operating temperature to avoid excessive overheating and sagging.
We study four representative scenarios deterministically, and propose the Probabilistic Collocation Method (PCM) as a tool to understand the stochastic behavior of the system.
We use PCM in forward parametric uncertainty quantification, global sensitivity analysis, and computation of failure probability curves in a straightforward and computationally efficient fashion, and we quantify the most influential parameters that affect the failure predictability from a physics-based perspective.
Compliant mechanisms have significant potential in precision applications due to their ability to guide motion without contact.
However, an inherent vulnerability to fatigue and mechanical failure has hindered the translation of compliant mechanisms to real-world applications.
This is particularly challenging in service environments where loading is complex and uncertain, and the cost of failure is high.
In such cases, mechanical hard stops are critical to prevent yielding and buckling.
Conventional hard-stop designs, which rely on stacking single-DOF limits, must be overly restrictive in multi-DOF space to guarantee safety in the presence of unknown loads.
In this study, we present a systematic design synthesis method to guarantee overload protection in compliant mechanisms by integrating coupled multi-DOF motion limits within a single pair of compact hard-stop surfaces.
Specifically, we introduce a theoretical and practical framework for optimizing the contact surface geometry to maximize the mechanisms multi-DOF working space while still ensuring that the mechanism remains within its elastic regime.
We apply this synthesis method to a case study of a caged-hinge mechanism for orthopaedic implants, and provide numerical and experimental validation that the derived design offers reliable protection against fatigue, yielding, and buckling.
This work establishes a foundation for precision hard-stop design in compliant systems operating under uncertain loads, which is a crucial step toward enabling the application of compliant mechanisms in real-world systems.
All systems are expected to be designed to fulfil their functions over their requested lifetime.
Nevertheless, failure of a system may occur, and this is unfortunately, true also for vacuum systems.
From a mechanical point of view, buckling, leak by fatigue crack propagation, rupture of a fixed support under unbalanced vacuum force... may happen.
To well understand and anticipate the behaviour of a structure, it is mandatory to first understand the mechanical behaviour of materials as well as their failure modes.
This is presented in a first part of the document.
Then, the structural behaviour of a vacuum system and its relationship with the material properties is discussed.
Finally, guidelines for the material selection for a given application are roughed out.
The weak properties in the thickness of the laminates in terms of rigidity, fatigue and impact resistance involve delamination sensitivity for thick structures.
This issue has led to the development of three-dimensional (3D) preforms with reinforcement through-the-thickness, making it possible to combine good mechanical performance in-plane and out-of-plane.
In this study, the tufting technology is used to strength through-the-thickness of stacked layers.
This reinforcement technique has extensively gained attention in the composite industry due to its ability to reinforce thick pieces.
The present study focuses on the mechanical behaviour of tufted preforms before resin impregnation due to their application in the forming steps during the manufacturing process.
Therefore, an experimental investigation of the mechanical behaviour (tensile, bending and in-plane shear) was carried out in order to outline the influence of tufting on the mechanical properties of the final structure.
The mechanical properties are essential for structural materials.
The analyzed 360 data on four mechanical properties of steels, viz. fatigue strength, tensile strength, fracture strength, and hardness, are selected from the NIMS database, including carbon steels, and low-alloy steels.
Five machine learning algorithms were applied on the 360 data to predict the mechanical properties and random forest regression illustrates the best performance.
The feature selection was conducted by random forest and symbolic regressions, leading to the four most important features of tempering temperature, and alloying elements of carbon, chromium, and molybdenum to the mechanical properties of steels.
Besides, mathematic expressions were generated via symbolic regression, and the expressions explicitly predict how each of the four mechanical properties varies quantitatively with the four most important features.
The present work demonstrates the great potential of symbolic regression in the discovery of novel advanced materials.
Mechanical stress-induced damage to the articular cartilage can result in fracture imitation or significant tissue degeneration leading to osteoarthritis (OA) compromising joint mobility.
Despite the clinical significance, a comprehensive understanding of the crack progression in cartilage damage remains elusive due to complex mechanical responses and variable initial crack geometry.
This study investigated the impact of physiologically relevant stress levels, ranging from light-weight to high stress activities, on crack propagation in cartilage under compressive cyclic loading.
Through empirical analysis, interconnections between localized damage (crack growth) and global damage (changes in material properties) across various levels of applied stress were established.
Microscale cracks were nucleated in cylindrical cartilage plugs extracted from porcine patella specimens via microindentation and then subjected to controlled cyclic loading to examine changes in structural integrity, mechanical properties, and crack extension.
Results demonstrated a decrease in cartilage thickness and apparent stiffness with increasing stress levels, indicative of bulk material damage.
Dynamic mechanical properties such as energy dissipation and phase angle showed an overall reduction after fatigue loading.
Crack growth followed an empirical law with increasing applied stress, reflective of greater mechanical damage at higher stress values.
The findings of the study showed the interplay between global and local damage in cartilage under cyclic loading, suggesting insights into the fundamental changes occurring within the tissue.
The outcomes of this investigation contributed to detailed understanding of the cartilage fatigue behavior through empirical laws and could potentially serve to prevent or delay tissue degeneration in OA.
The method of oncotripsy, first proposed in [S.
Oncotripsy: Targeting cancer cells selectively via resonant harmonic excitation.
Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids, 92:164-175], exploits aberrations in the material properties and morphology of cancerous cells in order to ablate them selectively by means of tuned low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS).
We propose a dynamical model of oncotripsy that follows as an application of cell dynamics, statistical mechanical theory of network elasticity and 'birth-death' kinetics to describe processes of damage and repair of the cytoskeleton.
We also develop a reduced dynamical model that approximates the three-dimensional dynamics of the cell and facilitates parametric studies, including sensitivity analysis and process optimization.
We show that the dynamical model predicts---and provides a conceptual basis for understanding---the oncotripsy effect and other trends in the data of [D.
Selective Ablation of Cancer Cells with Low Intensity Pulsed Ultrasound.
BioRxiv] for cells in suspension, including the dependence of cell-death curves on cell and process parameters.
Mobile geo-location advertising, where mobile ads are targeted based on a user's location, has been identified as a key growth factor for the mobile market.
As with online advertising, a crucial ingredient for their success is the development of effective economic mechanisms.
An important difference is that mobile ads are shown sequentially over time and information about the user can be learned based on their movements.
Furthermore, ads need to be shown selectively to prevent ad fatigue.
To this end, we introduce, for the first time, a user model and suitable economic mechanisms which take these factors into account.
Specifically, we design two truthful mechanisms which produce an advertisement plan based on the user's movements.
One mechanism is allocatively efficient, but requires exponential compute time in the worst case.
The other requires polynomial time, but is not allocatively efficient.
Finally, we experimentally evaluate the tradeoff between compute time and efficiency of our mechanisms.
This work provides a numerical calculation of shape gradients of failure probabilities for mechanical components using a first discretize, then adjoint approach.
While deterministic life prediction models for failure mechanisms are not (shape) differentiable, this changes in the case of probabilistic life prediction.
The probabilistic, or reliability based, approach thus opens the way for efficient adjoint methods in the design for mechanical integrity.
In this work we propose, implement and validate a method for the numerical calculation of the shape gradients of failure probabilities for the failure mechanism low cycle fatigue (LCF), which applies to polycrystalline metal. Numerical examples range from a bended rod to a complex geometry from a turbo charger in 3D.
From a data perspective, the materials mechanics field is characterized by sparsity of available data, mainly due to the strong microstructure-sensitivity of properties like strength, fracture toughness, and fatigue limit.
This requires testing specimens with different thermo-mechanical histories, even when the composition is similar.
Experimental data on mechanical behavior is rare, as mechanical testing is destructive and requires significant material and effort.
Furthermore, mechanical behavior is typically characterized in simplified tests under uniaxial loading conditions, whereas a complete characterization requires multiaxial testing.
To address this data sparsity, simulation methods like micromechanical modeling can contribute to microstructure-sensitive data collections.
This work introduces a novel data schema integrating both metadata and mechanical data, following the workflows of the material modeling processes by which the data has been generated.
Each workflow run produces unique data objects by incorporating user, system, and job-specific information correlated with mechanical properties.
This approach can be applied to any type of workflow as long as it is well-defined.
This integrated format provides a sustainable way of generating Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable (FAIR) data objects.
The metadata elements focus on key features required to characterize microstructure-specific data, simplifying the collection of purpose-specific datasets by search algorithms.
Collagen is a key structural protein in the human body, which undergoes mineralization during the formation of hard tissues.
Earlier studies have described the mechanical behavior of bone at different scales highlighting material features across hierarchical structures.
Here we present a study that aims to understand the mechanical properties of mineralized collagen fibrils upon tensile/compressive transient loads, investigating how the kinetic energy propagates and it is dissipated at the molecular scale, thus filling a gap of knowledge in this area.
These specific features are the mechanisms that Nature has developed to passively dissipate stress and prevent structural failures.
In addition to the mechanical properties of the mineralized fibrils, we observe distinct nanomechanical behaviors for the two regions (i.e., overlap and gap) of the D-period to highlight the effect of the mineralization.
We notice decreasing trends for both wave speeds and Young s moduli over input velocity with a marked strengthening effect in the gap region due to the accumulation of the hydroxyapatite.
In contrast, the dissipative behavior is not affected by either loading conditions or the mineral percentage, showing a stronger dampening effect upon faster inputs compatible to the bone behavior at the macroscale.
Our results improve the understanding of mineralized collagen composites unveiling the energy dissipative behavior of such materials.
This impacts, besides the physiology, the design and characterization of new bioinspired composites for replacement devices (e.g., prostheses for sound transmission or conduction) and for optimized structures able to bear transient loads, e.g., impact, fatigue, in structural applications.
Stretchable conductors are of crucial relevance for emerging technologies such as wearable electronics, low-invasive bioelectronic implants or soft actuators for robotics.
A critical issue for their development regards the understanding of defect formation and fracture of conducting pathways during stress-strain cycles.
Here we present a novel atomic force microscopy (AFM) method that provides multichannel images of surface morphology, conductivity, and elastic modulus during sample deformation.
To develop the method, we investigate in detail the mechanical interactions between the AFM tip and a stretched, free-standing thin film sample.
Our findings reveal the conditions to avoid artifacts related to sample bending modes or resonant excitations.
As an example, we analyze strain effects in thin gold films deposited on a soft silicone substrate.
Our technique allows to observe the details of microcrack opening during tensile strain and their impact on local current transport and surface mechanics.
We find that although the film fractures into separate fragments, at higher strain a current transport is sustained by a tunneling mechanism.
The microscopic observation of local defect formation and their correlation to local conductivity will provide novel insight to design more robust and fatigue resistant stretchable conductors.
In this study, a multiphysics model fully coupling mass transport, deformation, phase field, and fatigue damage was developed to investigate the cracking and fracturing behaviours of Si particles during the single lithiation-delithiation cycle and fatigue damage during multiple cycles.
The effects of particle diameter, charge rate, and pre-existing notches on the failure behaviour of Si particles were systematically analysed.
The results showed that the increase in charge rate, particle diameter, and pre-existing notch length leads to larger cracking rates and faster fracturing of the particle.
Then, a validated contour map of Si particle's fracture behaviours was developed.
Additionally, the influence of pre-existing notch length and charge rate on fatigue damage was examined, and it was found that longer pre-existing notch length and larger charge rate can shorten the particle's cyclic life.
Finally, to alleviate the particle fracture, nanopores were introduced in the particle, and the influence of porosity on the fracture behaviours was investigated.
The results showed that nanopores can reduce expansion, dissipate global tensile stresses and elongate the crack propagation path.
The developed computational framework established a predictive relationship between stress diffusion coupling theory and particle-level degradation, guiding future design and manufacturing of failure-resistant Si-based anodes for lithium-ion batteries.
Stress corrosion cracking (SCC) is a form of failure in metals that is present mostly in systems where humidity contact and mechanical load play a key role.
Therefore, prediction of the combined effect is desired.
There are models based on path dissolution and film rupture, Hydrogen-embrittlement, based on empirical observations, and the unified approach which recognizes not the maximum applied stress intensity factor (SIF) but the SIF range as the fatigue driving force.
So, in the later one, the contribution of corrosion to crack growth is recognized by adding a corrosion SIF.
Dynamic fluctuations in the wind field to which a wind turbine (WT) is exposed to are responsible for fatigue loads on its components.
To reduce structural loads in WTs, advanced control schemes have been proposed.
In recent years, prognosis-based lifetime control of WTs has become increasingly important.
In this approach, the prognostic controller gains are adapted based on the stateof-health (SOH) of the WT component to achieve the desired lifetime.
However, stochastic wind dynamics complicates estimation of the SOH of a WT.
More recently, robust controllers have been combined with real-time damage evaluation models to meet prognosis objectives.
Most rely on model-based online load cycle counting algorithms to determine fatigue damage, with analytical models providing the degradation estimate.
However, most use load measurements that are either unreliable or unavailable in commercial WTs, limiting their practicality.
In this contribution, a hybrid prognosis scheme combining data-driven load prediction and model-based damage estimation models for robust lifetime control of commercial WTs is proposed.
A data-driven support vector machine (SVM) regression model is trained using loading data obtained from dynamic simulations using a μ-synthesis robust disturbance accommodating controller (RDAC).
The regression model uses available WT measurements to predict tower load.
Based on this prediction, an online rain-flow counting (RFC) damage evaluation model estimates the damage level and lifetime of the tower.
The RDAC controller gains are dynamically adapted to achieve a predefined damage limit and lifetime.
The proposed approach is evaluated on a 5 MW reference WT and its performance is compared with a model-based prognosis scheme using ideal WT tower measurement.
Results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed approach to control the fatigue lifetime in WT components.
Modeling of cancellous bone has important applications in the detection and treatment of fatigue fractures and diseases like osteoporosis.
In this paper, we present a fully coupled multiscale approach considering mechanical, electrical and magnetic effects by using the multiscale finite element method and a two-phase material model on the microscale.
We show numerical results for both scales, including calculations for a femur bone, comparing a healthy bone to ones affected by different stages of osteoporosis.
Here, the magnetic field strength resulting from a small mechanical impact decreases drastically for later stages of the disease, confirming experimental research.
Maximizing the durability and reliability of offshore wind farms is essential for the clean energy transition.
In this work, we demonstrate how wave energy converter (WEC) farms can shelter offshore wind farms from cyclic wave loading, resulting in significant reductions in turbine fatigue damage.
Using experimentally validated hydrodynamic models, we show that WEC arrays can reduce wave-induced fatigue damage on the turbines by up to 25%, potentially lowering required monopile diameters and extending turbine lifetimes.
This damage reduction propagates to the levelized cost of energy (LCOE) of the wind farm, targeting cost reductions in nearly 50% of the total system costs.
Additionally, WEC farms can benefit from this co-location by sharing siting costs, operation and maintenance teams, and mooring and transmission cables with the offshore wind farm.
This work supports resilient, cost-effective offshore renewables for global deployment.
The mechanical performance of reinforced composites is strongly influenced at different scales by the stress transferred at the matrix-fibre interfaces and at any surface where material discontinuity occurs.
In particular, the mechanical response of elastomeric composites where the reinforcement is composed by cords with helically wound fibres is heavily compromised by fatigue and delamination phenomena occurring at cord-rubber as well as at the ply interfaces, since rubber and polymeric matrices are mainly vulnerable to the accumulation of deviatoric energy due to the shear stresses transferred across the surfaces.
Despite the large diffusion of composites in a vast field of applications and the mature knowledge of their behaviour, some key mechanical aspects underlying failure mechanisms are still partially unclear.
For example, stress amplification and strain localization are often difficult to predict by means of analytical solutions and averaging techniques that usually conceal stress gradients.
In this work, we analyse coupling between torsional and tensile loads in twisted cords, which are adopted in many cases to reinforce composites and rubbers in tire applications.
We provide a model characterized by an enriched cord-matrix mechanical interplay able to theoretically explain and predict actual stress distributions responsible for the onset of delamination and fatigue-guided phenomena that are experimentally observed in these composites.
In particular, we demonstrate that the assumption of a monoclinic/trigonal behaviour for the mechanical response of the hierarchical strands allows to estimate, by means of analytical formulas and a homogenization approach, hitherto neglected shear stresses at the matrix-reinforcement interface.
These stresses are transferred to the neighbouring regions, leading to post-elastic behaviour and failure events.
We investigate the potential of quasi-Newton methods in facilitating convergence of monolithic solution schemes for phase field fracture modelling.
Several paradigmatic boundary value problems are addressed, spanning the fields of quasi-static fracture, fatigue damage and dynamic cracking.
The finite element results obtained reveal the robustness of quasi-Newton monolithic schemes, with convergence readily attained under both stable and unstable cracking conditions.
Moreover, since the solution method is unconditionally stable, very significant computational gains are observed relative to the widely used staggered solution schemes.
In addition, a new adaptive time increment scheme is presented to further reduces the computational cost while allowing to accurately resolve sudden changes in material behavior, such as unstable crack growth.
Computation times can be reduced by several orders of magnitude, with the number of load increments required by the corresponding staggered solution being up to 3000 times higher.
Quasi-Newton monolithic solution schemes can be a key enabler for large scale phase field fracture simulations.
Implications are particularly relevant for the emerging field of phase field fatigue, as results show that staggered cycle-by-cycle calculations are prohibitive in mid or high cycle fatigue.
The finite element codes are available to download from www.empaneda.com/codes.
This paper presents a comprehensive review of wear mechanisms, with a primary focus on rubber wear under sliding conditions.
Beginning with classical wear theories, including the Archard and Rabinowicz models, we analyze their applicability to both metals and elastomers and discuss extensions relevant to elastic contact and multiscale surface roughness.
Various experimental studies on rubber, such as abrasion by sharp tools, erosion by particle impact, and wear during sliding on rough substrates, are reviewed and interpreted.
The effects of environmental factors, such as oxygen and lubrication, are also discussed.
In addition, we review a recently proposed wear model based on fatigue crack growth within asperity contact regions, which accounts for energy dissipation and multiscale interactions.
This model explains the wide variability in the wear coefficient and predicts wear rates consistent with experimental observations across a broad range of conditions.
It also explains the formation mechanism and provides the size distribution of rubber wear particles, from micrometer-scale up to severe cut-chip-chunk (CCC) wear.
The results have implications for tire wear and the environmental impact of microscale wear debris (microplastics).
An accurate risk assessment for fatigue damage is of vital importance for the design and service of today's turbomachinery components.
We present an approach for quantifying the probability of crack initiation due to surface driven low-cycle fatigue (LCF).
This approach is based on the theory of failure-time processes and takes inhomogeneous stress fields and size effects into account.
The method has been implemented as a finite-element postprocessor which uses quadrature formulae of higher order.
Results of applying this new approach to an example case of a gas-turbine compressor disk are discussed.
We consider the problem of dispatching WindFarm (WF) power demand to individual Wind Turbines (WT) with the goal of minimizing mechanical stresses.
We assume wind is strong enough to let each WTs to produce the required power and propose different closed-loop Model Predictive Control (MPC) dispatching algorithms.
Similarly to existing approaches based on MPC, our methods do not require changes in WT hardware but only software changes in the SCADA system of the WF.
However, differently from previous MPC schemes, we augment the model of a WT with an ARMA predictor of the wind turbulence, which reduces uncertainty in wind predictions over the MPC control horizon.
This allows us to develop both stochastic and deterministic MPC algorithms.
In order to compare different MPC schemes and demonstrate improvements with respect to classic open-loop schedulers, we performed simulations using the SimWindFarm toolbox for MatLab.
We demonstrate that MPC controllers allow to achieve reduction of stresses even in the case of large installations such as the 100-WTs Thanet offshore WF.
While purely data-driven assessment is feasible for the first levels of the Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) process, namely damage detection and arguably damage localization, this does not hold true for more advanced processes.
The tasks of damage quantification and eventually residual life prognosis are invariably linked to availability of a representation of the system, which bears physical connotation.
In this context, it is often desirable to assimilate data and models, into what is often termed a digital twin of the monitored system.
One common take to such an end lies in exploitation of structural mechanics models, relying on use of Finite Element approximations. proper updating of these models, and their incorporation in an inverse problem setting may allow for damage quantification and localization, as well as more advanced tasks, including reliability analysis and fatigue assessment.
However, this may only be achieved by means of repetitive analyses of the forward model, which implies considerable computational toll, when the model used is a detailed FE representation.
In tackling this issue, reduced order models can be adopted, which retain the parameterisation and link to the parameters regulating the physical properties, albeit greatly reducing the computational burden.
In this work a detailed FE model of a wind turbine tower is considered, reduced forms of this model are found using both the Craig Bampton and Dual Craig Bampton methods.
These reduced order models are then used and compared in a Transitional Markov Chain Monte Carlo procedure to localise and quantify damage which is introduced to the system.
We report on our progress towards continuum rate equation modeling, as well as numerical simulations, of self-healing of fatigue in composites reinforced with glue carrying nanoporous fibers.
We conclude that with the proper choice of the material parameters, effects of fatigue can be partially overcome and degradation of mechanical properties can be delayed.
Vibro-Acoustic Modulation method for detection and characterization of various structural and material flaws has been actively researched for the last two decades.
Most of the studies focused on detection and monitoring of macro-cracks requiring well established baseline (no-damage) value of the modulation index.
The baseline value is specific for a particular structure, measuring setup, and other factors and can't be established in many practical situations without a long term monitoring looking for a relative change in the Modulation Index.
In this work, we propose and investigate a baseline-free Vibro-Acoustic Modulation method, which does not require monitoring of relative Modulation Index change, unlike conventional approach.
It was hypothesized that the nonlinear mechanisms (and respective nonlinear response) of a structure are different for undamaged and damaged material. For example: material without damage or at early stages of fatigue have classic elastic or hysteretic/dissipative nonlinearity while damaged (cracked) material may exhibit contact bi-linear or Hertzian nonlinear mechanisms.
These mechanisms yield different power law dependencies of Modulation Index (MI) as function of applied vibration frequency input amplitude, B: MI ~ B^b Thus, quadratic nonlinearity yields linear dependence, b =1, and Hertzian nonlinearity results in b<1.
Other nonlinear mechanisms yield different power laws.
Therefore, measuring power damage coefficient b instead of MI may offer testing without established reference value.
It is also offer some insights into the nonlinear mechanisms transformation during damage evolution.
This approach was experimentally investigated and validated.
Airport pavement design methods, such as those of the FAA, assume general climatic conditions, although regional temperature variations significantly affect pavement behavior, stress strain distribution, performance, and reliability.
With global warming, evaluating how temperature influences pavement materials and resilience has become increasingly important.
This study conducts a reliability analysis of pavement designed by traditional methods while incorporating seasonal temperature variation for Sao Paulo Congonhas International Airport CGH.
After designing the pavement based on the airports traffic mix, a Monte Carlo Simulation was used to assess reliability under temperature changes.
Results show that the cumulative damage factor from MCS is 79% lower than that obtained with the FAA method, indicating that aircraft cause less damage than predicted.
The pavement could support 2.5 times more traffic at 95% reliability and 5.0 times more at 50% reliability.
These findings suggest that, in Brazilian airports where fatigue governs design, FAARFIELD overestimates damage and increases construction costs, highlighting the need to calibrate design methods to local climatic conditions.
Limitations include the deterministic temperature model and the exclusion of factors such as precipitation, thickness variability, and temperature dependent fatigue testing.
Future work will aim to address these gaps and refine performance equations.
We develop a thermodynamic framework for modeling nonlinear ultrasonic damage sensing and prognosis in materials undergoing progressive damage.
The framework is based on the internal variable approach and relies on the construction of a pseudo-elastic strain energy function that captures the energetics associated with the damage progression.
The pseudo-elastic strain energy function is composed of two energy functions - one that describes how a material stores energy in an elastic fashion and the other describes how material dissipates energy or stores it in an inelastic fashion.
Experimental motivation for the choice of the above two functionals is discussed and some specific choices pertaining to damage progression during fatigue and creep are presented.
The thermodynamic framework is employed to model the nonlinear response of material undergoing stress relaxation and creep-like degradation.
For each of the above cases, evolution of the nonlinearity parameter with damage as well as with macroscopic measurables like accumulated plastic strain are obtained.
The software engineering research community faces a systemic crisis: peer review is failing under growing submissions, misaligned incentives, and reviewer fatigue.
Community surveys reveal that researchers perceive the process as "broken." This position paper argues that these dysfunctions are mechanism design failures amenable to computational solutions.
We propose modeling the research community as a stochastic multi-agent system and applying multi-agent reinforcement learning to design incentive-compatible protocols.
We outline three interventions: a credit-based submission economy, MARL-optimized reviewer assignment, and hybrid verification of review consistency.
We present threat models, equity considerations, and phased pilot metrics.
This vision charts a research agenda toward sustainable peer review.
Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) are a promising clean energy technology, offering high efficiency and near-zero operational emissions for stationery and automotive applications.
However, their widespread adoption remains limited by insufficient durability, driven by the degradation of the catalyst layer and proton exchange membrane under realistic operating conditions.
While the macroscopic consequences of degradation are well established experimentally, the atomistic and molecular mechanisms that initiate and propagate failure remain incompletely understood.
This review synthesizes recent advances in computational modelling, spanning density functional theory, molecular dynamics, and emerging machine learning potentials, to examine how chemical, mechanical, electrochemical, and contamination driven degradation mechanisms operate across multiple length and time scales.
Key topics include radical-induced membrane degradation, platinum dissolution and carbon support corrosion, mechanical fatigue under electrical and hygrothermal cycling, and the impact of ionic and gaseous contaminants.
A central finding is that these degradation pathways are not independent, but form strongly coupled feedback loops that no existing computational framework has been designed to capture this coupling simultaneously.
Future directions are proposed, with emphasis on multiscale modelling frameworks and the application of machine learning interatomic potentials to the electrified interface.
This paper discusses how a cyber attack could take advantage of torsional resonances in the shaft of turbo-generators to inflict severe physical damage to a power system.
If attackers were able to take over the control of a battery energy storage device, they could modulate the injection of this device at a frequency that matches one of the sub-synchronous resonance frequencies of a generator.
Small changes in injection might be sufficient to excite one of these mechanical resonances, resulting in metal fatigue and ultimately a catastrophic failure in the shaft of the generator.
Using a state-space model of the electromechanical system, the paper develops transfer functions linking the magnitude of the malicious injections to the magnitude of oscillations in the speed and angle of the various masses connected to the shaft.
Numerical results from a two-area power system demonstrate the existence of vulnerable frequencies and show that damaging mechanical oscillations can be triggered without causing easily detectable signals at the generator terminals.
When valuable delicate goods are shipped by truck, attention must be paid to vibrations that may cause damage.
We present a case study of moving an extremely delicate 6230-kg superconducting magnet, immersed in liquid nitrogen, from Livermore, CA to Seattle, WA showing the steps of fatigue analysis of the load, a test move, and acceleration monitoring of the final move to ensure a successful damage-free transport.
Real-time stress evolution in a graphite-based lithium-ion battery negative-electrode during electrolyte wetting and electrochemical cycling is measured through wafer-curvature method.
Upon electrolyte addition, the composite electrode rapidly develops compressive stress of the order of 1-2 MPa due to binder swelling; upon continued exposure, the stress continues to evolve towards an apparent plateau.
During electrochemical intercalation at a slow rate, the compressive stress increases with the electrode's state-of-charge, reaching a maximum value of 10 - 12 MPa. There appears to be an approximate correlation between the rate of stress rise and the staging behavior of the lithiated graphite.
De-intercalation at a slow rate results in a similar linear decrease in electrode stress.
Tensile stress of a few MPa develops at the end of deintercalation in the first few cycles, after which the electrode remains under compressive stress only.
Although higher peak stresses are seen at high C-rates, the dependence appears to be relatively weak (up to 5C).
These measurements reveal, for the first time, the nature of stress evolution in practical lithium-ion-battery electrodes and provide useful data to quantify the driving force for mechanical damage that accrues in composite electrodes upon repeated cycling.
While the reported results can serve as reference for calibrating theoretical and computational models to predict electrode stress and damage evolution, the methodology demonstrated can be used to measure stresses and characterize fatigue damage in any composite lithium-ion-battery electrode as well as optimize its microstructure to mitigate stress-related damage mechanisms.
An accurate assessment for fatigue damage as a function of activation and deactivation cycles is vital for the design of many engineering parts.
In this paper we extend the probabilistic and local approach to this problem proposed in [1,2] and [3] to the case of non-constant temperature fields and thermomechanical loading.
The method has been implemented as a finite element postprocessor and applied to an example case of a gas-turbine blade which is made of a conventionally cast nickel base superalloy.
We explore the conductance of self-healing materials as a measure of the material integrity in the regime of the onset of the initial fatigue.
Continuum effective-field modeling and lattice numerical simulations are reported.
Our results illustrate the general features of the self-healing process: The onset of the material fatigue is delayed, by developing a plateau-like time-dependence of the material quality.
We demonstrate that in this low-damage regime, the changes in the conductance and similar transport/response properties of the material can be used as measures of the material quality degradation.
The science of fractography revolves around the correlation between topographic characteristics of the fracture surface and the mechanisms and external conditions leading to their creation.
While being a topic of investigation for centuries, it has remained mostly qualitative to date.
A quantitative analysis of fracture surfaces is of prime interest for both the scientific community and the industrial sector, bearing the potential for improved understanding on the mechanisms controlling the fracture process and at the same time assessing the reliability of computational models currently being used for material design.
With new advances in the field of image analysis, and specifically with machine learning tools becoming more accessible and reliable, it is now feasible to automate the process of extracting meaningful information from fracture surface images.
Here, we propose a method of identifying and quantifying the relative appearance of intergranular and transgranular fracture events from scanning electron microscope images.
The newly proposed method is based on a convolutional neural network algorithm for semantic segmentation.
The proposed method is extensively tested and evaluated against two ceramic material systems ($Al_2O_3$,$MgAl_2O_4$) and shows high prediction accuracy, despite being trained on only one material system ($MgAl_2O_4$).
While here attention is focused on brittle fracture characteristics, the method can be easily extended to account for other fracture morphologies, such as dimples, fatigue striations, etc.
As inelastic design for wind is embraced by the engineering community, there is an increasing demand for computational tools that enable the investigation of the nonlinear behavior of wind-excited structures and subsequent development of performance criteria.
To address this need, a probabilistic collapse assessment framework for steel structures is proposed in this paper.
The framework is based on the integration of a high-fidelity fiber-based nonlinear structural modeling environment with a wind-tunnel-informed stochastic wind load model to perform nonlinear time history analysis.
General uncertainty is propagated using a stratified sampling scheme enabling the efficient estimation of reliabilities associated with rare events.
The adopted models for simulating high-fidelity nonlinear structural behavior were found, in general, to be adequate for capturing phenomena, including progressive yielding, buckling, and low-cycle fatigue, that are essential for wind induced collapse analysis.
In particular, the adopted fatigue model was found to be capable of predicting damage and potential fiber/section fracture associated with non-fully reversing stress-strain cycles that are characteristic of wind loading.
Through illustration on a 45-story archetype steel building, critical discussions on the types of observed collapse mechanisms, the difference between alongwind and acrosswind nonlinear behavior, reliabilities associated with first yield, and collapse are presented.
A probabilistic description of the residual and peak story drifts is also provided through development of fragility functions.
A novel finite element method (FEM) is developed to study mechanical response of axons embedded in extra cellular matrix (ECM) when subjected to harmonic uniaxial stretch under purely non-affine kinematic boundary conditions.
The proposed modeling approach combines hyper-elastic (such as Ogden model) and time/frequency domain viscoelastic constitutive models to evaluate the effect of parametrically varying oligodendrocyte-axon tethering under harmonic stretch at 50Hz.
A hybrid hyper-viscoelastic material (HVE) model enabled the analysis of repeated uniaxial load on stress propagation and damage accumulation in white matter.
In the proposed FEM, oligodendrocyte connections to axons are depicted via a spring-dashpot model.
This tethering technique facilitates contact definition at various locations, parameterizes connection points and varies stiffness of connection hubs.
Results from a home-grown FE submodel configuration of a single oligodendrocyte tethered to axons at various locations are presented.
Root mean square deviation (RMSD) are computed between stress-strain plots to depict trends in mechanical response.
Steady-state dynamic (SSD) simulations show stress relaxation in axons.
Gradual axonal softening under repetitive loads is illustrated employing Prony series - HVE models.
Representative von-Mises stress plots indicate that undulated axons experience bending stresses along their tortuous path, suggesting greater susceptibility to damage accumulation and fatigue failure due to repeated strains.
This paper addresses optimal control problems governed by history-dependent EVIs with viscosity.
One of the prominent properties of the state system is its non-smooth nature, so that the application of standard adjoint calculus is excluded.
We extend the results from [7] by showing that history-dependent EVIs with viscosity can be formulated as non-smooth ODEs in Hilbert space in a general setting.
The Hadamard directional differentiability of the solution map is investigated.
Based on previous results, this allows us to establish strong stationary conditions for two different viscous damage models with fatigue.
The behaviour of a tungsten first wall is studied under the irradiation conditions predicted for the different operation scenarios of the European Laser fusion project HiPER, which is based on direct drive targets and an evacuated dry wall chamber.
The scenarios correspond to different stages in the development of a nuclear fusion reactor, from proof of principle (bunch mode facility) to economic feasibility (pre-commercial power plant).
This work constitutes a quantitative study to evaluate the first wall performance under realistic irradiation conditions in the different scenarios.
We calculated the radiation fluxes assuming the geometrical configurations reported so far for HiPER.
Then, we calculated the irradiation-induced first wall temperature evolution and the thermo-mechanical response of the material. The results indicate that the first wall will plastically deform up to a few microns underneath the surface.
Continuous operation in power plant leads to fatigue failure with crack generation and growth.
Finally, the crack propagation and the minimum W thickness required to fulfil the first wall protection role is studied.
The response of tungsten as first wall material as well as its main limitations will be discussed for the HiPER scenarios.
Practical applications of mechanical metamaterials often involve solving inverse problems where the objective is to find the (multiple) microarchitectures that give rise to a given set of properties.
The limited resolution of additive manufacturing techniques often requires solving such inverse problems for specific sizes.
One should, therefore, find multiple microarchitectural designs that exhibit the desired properties for a specimen with given dimensions.
Moreover, the candidate microarchitectures should be resistant to fatigue and fracture, meaning that peak stresses should be minimized as well.
Such a multi-objective inverse design problem is formidably difficult to solve but its solution is the key to real-world applications of mechanical metamaterials.
Here, we propose a modular approach titled 'Deep-DRAM' that combines four decoupled models, including two deep learning models (DLM), a deep generative model (DGM) based on conditional variational autoencoders (CVAE), and direct finite element (FE) simulations.
Deep-DRAM (deep learning for the design of random-network metamaterials) integrates these models into a unified framework capable of finding many solutions to the multi-objective inverse design problem posed here.
The integrated framework first introduces the desired elastic properties to the DGM, which returns a set of candidate designs.
The candidate designs, together with the target specimen dimensions are then passed to the DLM which predicts their actual elastic properties considering the specimen size.
After a filtering step based on the closeness of the actual properties to the desired ones, the last step uses direct FE simulations to identify the designs with the minimum peak stresses.
The present paper proposes a novel two-dimensional non-linear tuned mass damper inerter (2d-NTMDI) to effectively mitigate bi-directional structural responses.
The 2d-NTMDI consists of a mass and two sets of springs, dashpots and inerters configured in two axes.
The resultant restoring forces are nonlinear with respect to the displacements in two axes.
While the proposed novel 2d-NTMDI has the capability of mitigating bi-directional vibrations simultaneously, the system nonlinearity complicates the optimization.
A numerical search method is adopted to determine the optimum design parameters of the 2d-NTMDI.
To evaluate the effectiveness, the proposed 2d-NTMDI is deployed in a 5MW-wind turbine blade suffering from bi-directional vibrations in the edgewise and flapwise directions.
To this end, an analytical model of a wind turbine blade with a 2d-NTMDI is established.
The wind loading is computed using blade element momentum theory.
The effectiveness of the 2d-NTMDI is examined under different loading conditions.
Also, the fatigue damage of the wind turbine blades is calculated according to the rain-flow cycle counting approach and Miner's law.
It is concluded that the optimized design 2d-NTMDI can prolong the blade fatigue life by $35\%$.
Stochastic modelling of fatigue (and other material's deterioration), as well as of cumulative damage in risk theory, are often based on compound sums of independent random variables, where the number of addends is represented by an independent counting process.
We consider here a cumulative model where, instead of a renewal process (as in the Poisson case), a linear birth (or Yule) process is used.
This corresponds to the assumption that the frequency of \textquotedblleft damage" increments accelerates according to the increasing number of \textquotedblleft damages".
We start from the partial differential equation satisfied by its transition density, in the case of exponentially distributed addends, and then we generalize it by introducing a space-derivative of convolution type (i.e. defined in terms of the Laplace exponent of a subordinator).
Then we are concerned with the solution of integro-differential equations, which, in particular cases, reduce to fractional ones.
Correspondingly, we analyze the related cumulative jump processes under a general infinitely divisible distribution of the (positive) jumps.
Some special cases (such as the stable, tempered stable, gamma and Poisson) are presented.
This paper outlines the RF design of the CLIC (Compact Linear Collider) 30 GHz main linac accelerating structure and gives the resulting longitudinal and transverse mode properties.
The critical requirement for multibunch operation, that transverse wakefields be suppressed by two orders of magnitude within 0.7 ns (twenty fundamental mode cycles), has been demonstrated in a recent ASSET experiment.
The feasibility of operating the structure at an accelerating gradient of 150 MV/m for 130 ns has yet to be demonstrated.
Damage of the internal copper surfaces due to high electric fields or resulting from metal fatigue induced by cyclic surface heating effects are a major concern requiring further study.
This paper presents the development of a novel life-extending control scheme for critical helicopter components subjected to significant fatigue loading.
The primary objective is to synthesize a more efficient and less conservative life-extending control scheme than those currently available in the literature.
The proposed Load Limiting Control (LLC) scheme is a viable solution that addresses several issues that current life-extending control schemes suffer from, such as the neglect of fatigue damage induced by the harmonic component of loads and the inability to distinguish between aggressive and non-aggressive maneuvers.
The proposed LLC scheme treats desired harmonic load limits as limit boundaries and recasts the problem of load limiting as a vehicle limit by computing a Control Margin (CM) using a limit detection and avoidance module.
The computed CM is used as a cue to the pilot.
The limit detection and avoidance module comprises an optimization algorithm, a model predictive controller, and a computationally simple on-board dynamical model.
Simulations were conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the LLC scheme in limiting harmonic pitch link loads during flight.
One significant outcome is that, with sufficient training, the pilot can skillfully track the cue within 0.5 seconds of initiating the tracking task.
Computational modeling of the structural behavior of continuous fiber composite materials often takes into account the periodicity of the underlying micro-structure.
A well established method dealing with the structural behavior of periodic micro-structures is the so- called Asymptotic Expansion Homogenization (AEH).
By considering a periodic perturbation of the material displacement, scale bridging functions, also referred to as elastic correctors, can be derived in order to connect the strains at the level of the macro-structure with micro- structural strains.
For complicated inhomogeneous micro-structures, the derivation of such functions is usually performed by the numerical solution of a PDE problem - typically with the Finite Element Method.
Moreover, when dealing with uncertain micro-structural geometry and material parameters, there is considerable uncertainty introduced in the actual stresses experienced by the materials.
Due to the high computational cost of computing the elastic correctors, the choice of a pure Monte-Carlo approach for dealing with the inevitable material and geometric uncertainties is clearly computationally intractable.
This problem is even more pronounced when the effect of damage in the micro-scale is considered, where re-evaluation of the micro-structural representative volume element is necessary for every occurring damage.
The novelty in this paper is that a non-intrusive surrogate modeling approach is employed with the purpose of directly bridging the macro-scale behavior of the structure with the material behavior in the micro-scale, therefore reducing the number of costly evaluations of corrector functions, allowing for future developments on the incorporation of fatigue or static damage in the analysis of composite structural components.
This article is aimed at the investigation of some properties of the Weibull cumulative exposure model on multiple-step step-stress accelerated life test data.
Although the model includes a probabilistic idea of Miner's rule in order to express the effect of cumulative damage in fatigue, our result shows that the application of only this is not sufficient to express degradation of specimens and the shape parameter must be larger than 1.
For a random variable obeying the model, its average and standard deviation are investigated on a various sets of parameter values.
In addition, a way of checking the validity of the model is illustrated through an example of the maximum likelihood estimation on an actual data set, which is about time to breakdown of cross-linked polyethylene-insulated cables.
We study the self-healing process of materials with embedded "glue"-carrying cells, in the regime of the onset of the initial fatigue.
Three-dimensional numerical simulations within the percolation-model approach are reported.
The main numerical challenge taken up in the present work, has been to extend the calculation of the conductance to three-dimensional lattices.
Our results confirm the general features of the process: The onset of the material fatigue is delayed, by developing a plateau-like time-dependence of the material quality.
We demonstrate that in this low-damage regime, the changes in the conductance and thus, in similar transport/response properties of the material can be used as measures of the material quality degradation.
A new feature found for three dimensions, where it is much more profound than in earlier-studied two-dimensional systems, is the competition between the healing cells.
Even for low initial densities of the healing cells, they interfere with each other and reduce each other's effective healing efficiency.
Mid-air gestures serve as a common interaction modality across Extended Reality (XR) applications, enhancing engagement and ownership through intuitive body movements.
However, prolonged arm movements induce shoulder fatigue, known as "Gorilla Arm Syndrome", degrading user experience and reducing interaction duration.
Although existing ergonomic techniques derived from Fitts' law (such as reducing target distance, increasing target width, and modifying control-display gain) provide some fatigue mitigation, their implementation in XR applications remains challenging due to the complex balance between user engagement and physical exertion.
We present AlphaPIG, a meta-technique designed to Prolong Interactive Gestures by leveraging real-time fatigue predictions.
AlphaPIG assists designers in extending and improving XR interactions by enabling automated fatigue-based interventions.
Through adjustment of intervention timing and intensity decay rate, designers can explore and control the trade-off between fatigue reduction and potential effects such as decreased body ownership.
We validated AlphaPIG's effectiveness through a study (N=22) implementing the widely-used Go-Go technique.
Results demonstrated that AlphaPIG significantly reduces shoulder fatigue compared to non-adaptive Go-Go, while maintaining comparable perceived body ownership and agency.
Based on these findings, we discuss positive and negative perceptions of the intervention.
By integrating real-time fatigue prediction with adaptive intervention mechanisms, AlphaPIG constitutes a critical first step towards creating fatigue-aware applications in XR.
The fiber bundle model describes a collection of elastic fibers under load. the fibers fail successively and for each failure, the load distribution among the surviving fibers change.
Even though very simple, the model captures the essentials of failure processes in a large number of materials and settings.
We present here a review of fiber bundle model with different load redistribution mechanism from the point of view of statistics and statistical physics rather than materials science, with a focus on concepts such as criticality, universality and fluctuations.
We discuss the fiber bundle model as a tool for understanding phenomena such as creep, and fatigue, how it is used to describe the behavior of fiber reinforced composites as well as modelling e.g. network failure, traffic jams and earthquake dynamics.
Safety-critical infrastructures, such as bridges, are periodically inspected to check for existing damage, such as fatigue cracks and corrosion, and to guarantee the safe use of the infrastructure.
Visual inspection is the most frequent type of general inspection, despite the fact that its detection capability is rather limited, especially for fatigue cracks.
Machine learning algorithms can be used for augmenting the capability of classical visual inspection of bridge structures, however, the implementation of such an algorithm requires a massive annotated training dataset, which is time-consuming to produce.
This paper proposes a semi-automatic crack segmentation tool that eases the manual segmentation of cracks on images needed to create a training dataset for a machine learning algorithm.
Also, it can be used to measure the geometry of the crack.
This tool makes use of an image processing algorithm, which was initially developed for the analysis of vascular systems on retinal images.
The algorithm relies on a multi-orientation wavelet transform, which is applied to the image to construct the so-called "orientation scores", i.e. a modified version of the image.
Afterwards, the filtered orientation scores are used to formulate an optimal path problem that identifies the crack.
The globally optimal path between manually selected crack endpoints is computed, using a state-of-the-art geometric tracking method.
The pixel-wise segmentation is done afterwards using the obtained crack path.
The proposed method outperforms fully automatic methods and shows potential to be an adequate alternative to the manual data annotation.
Increasing the HMA base thickness and modifying the HMA mixture properties to improve the resistance to fatigue cracking are among the most popular methods for achieving long-lasting pavements.
Such methods are based on the idea of reducing the tensile strain at the bottom of the HMA layer below the Fatigue Endurance Limit (FEL), a level of strain below which no cumulative damage occurs to the HMA mixture.
This study investigates the effectiveness of several design strategies involved in long-life, perpetual pavement design.
A 3D Finite Element model of the pavement involving a linear viscoelastic constitutive model for HMA materials and non-uniform tire contact stresses is developed using ABAQUS 6.11.
The effects of asphalt base course thickness and mixture type, rich binder layer, and aggregate subbase layer are examined.
Four asphalt base course mixture types, namely dense graded, polymer modified, high modulus, and standard binder, are studied as a function of the asphalt base course thickness.
The results underline a better performance of the high-modulus asphalt base, as compared to the other base course mixtures.
The aggregate subbase layer on top of subgrade soil showed a relatively minor effect on the longitudinal and lateral strain response at the bottom of asphalt base course.
The addition of a rich binder layer at the bottom of the asphalt base course showed a significant reduction in tensile strains.
Tables are provided as a guideline to assess the different alternatives in design of long-life perpetual pavements.
Soft materials may break irreversibly upon applying sufficiently large shear oscillations, a process which physical mechanism remains largely elusive.
In this work, the rupture of protein gels made of sodium caseinate under an oscillatory stress is shown to occur in an abrupt, brittle-like manner.
Upon increasing the stress amplitude, the build-up of harmonic modes in the strain response can be rescaled for all gel concentrations.
This rescaling yields an empirical criterion to predict the rupture point way before the samples are significantly damaged. "Fatigue" experiments under stress oscillations of constant amplitude can be mapped onto the former results, which indicates that rupture is independent of the temporal pathway in which strain and damage accumulate.
Finally, using ultrasonic imaging, we measure the local mechanical properties of the gels before, during and after breakdown, showing that the strain field remains perfectly homogeneous up to rupture but suddenly gives way to a solid-fluid phase separation upon breakdown.
We are concerned with the numerical solution of a unified first order hyperbolic formulation of continuum mechanics that originates from the work of Godunov, Peshkov and Romenski (GPR model) and which is an extension of nonlinear hyperelasticity that is able to describe simultaneously nonlinear elasto-plastic solids at large strain, as well as viscous and ideal fluids.
The proposed governing PDE system also contains the effect of heat conduction and can be shown to be symmetric and thermodynamically compatible.
In this paper we extend the GPR model to the simulation of nonlinear dynamic rupture processes and material fatigue effects, by adding a new scalar variable to the governing PDE system.
This extra parameter describes the material damage and is governed by an advection-reaction equation, where the stiff and highly nonlinear reaction mechanisms depend on the ratio of the local von Mises stress to the yield stress of the material. The stiff reaction mechanisms are integrated in time via an efficient exponential time integrator.
Due to the multiple space-time scales, the model is solved on space-time adaptive Cartesian meshes using high order discontinuous Galerkin finite element schemes with a posteriori subcell finite volume limiting.
A key feature of our new model is the use of a twofold diffuse interface approach that allows the cracks to form anywhere and at any time, independently of the chosen computational grid, without requiring that the geometry of the rupture fault be known a priori.
We furthermore make use of a scalar volume fraction function that indicates whether a given point is inside the solid or outside, allowing the description of solids of arbitrarily complex shape.
Health indicators (HIs) are central to diagnosing and prognosing the condition of aerospace composite structures, enabling efficient maintenance and operational safety.
However, extracting reliable HIs remains challenging due to variability in material properties, stochastic damage evolution, and diverse damage modes.
Manufacturing defects (e.g., disbonds) and in-service incidents (e.g., bird strikes) further complicate this process.
This study presents a comprehensive data-driven framework that learns HIs via two learning approaches integrated with multi-domain signal processing.
Because ground-truth HIs are unavailable, a semi-supervised and an unsupervised approach are proposed: (i) a diversity deep semi-supervised anomaly detection (Diversity-DeepSAD) approach augmented with continuous auxiliary labels used as hypothetical damage proxies, which overcomes the limitation of prior binary labels that only distinguish healthy and failed states while neglecting intermediate degradation, and (ii) a degradation-trend-constrained variational autoencoder (DTC-VAE), in which the monotonicity criterion is embedded via an explicit trend constraint.
Guided waves with multiple excitation frequencies are used to monitor single-stiffener composite structures under fatigue loading.
Time, frequency, and time-frequency representations are explored, and per-frequency HIs are fused via unsupervised ensemble learning to mitigate frequency dependence and reduce variance.
Using fast Fourier transform features, the augmented Diversity-DeepSAD model achieved 81.6% performance, while DTC-VAE delivered the most consistent HIs with 92.3% performance, outperforming existing baselines.
The movement of a purely elastic interface driven on a disordered energy potential is characterized by a depinning transition: when the pulling force S is larger than some critical value S_1 the system is in a flowing regime and moves at a finite velocity.
If S < S_1 the interface remains pinned and its velocity is zero.
We show that for a one-dimensional interface, the inclusion of viscoelastic relaxation produces the appearance of an intervening regime between the pinned and the flowing phases in a well defined stress interval S_0<S<S_1, in which the interface evolves through a sequence of avalanches that give rise to a creep process.
As S --> S_0 the creep velocity vanishes in an universal way that is governed by a directed percolation process.
As S --> S_1 the creep velocity increases as a power law due to the increase of the typical size of the avalanches.
The present observations may serve to improve the understanding of fatigue failure mechanisms.
Aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul industry is gradually switching to 3D scanning for dent inspection.
High-accuracy devices allow quick and repeatable measurements, which translate into efficient reporting and more objective damage evaluations.
However, the potential of 3D scanners is far from being exploited.
This is due to the traditional way in which the structural repair manual deals with dents, that is, considering length, width and depth as the only relevant measures.
Being equivalent to describing a dent similarly to a box, the current approach discards any information about the actual shape.
This causes high degrees of ambiguity, with very different shapes (and corresponding fatigue life) being classified as the same, and nullifies the effort of acquiring such great amount of information from high-accuracy 3D scanners.
In this paper a 7-parameter model is proposed to describe the actual dent shape, thus enabling the exploitation of the high fidelity data produced by 3D scanners.
The compact set of values can then be compared against historical data and structural evaluations based on the same model.
The proposed approach has been evaluated in both simulations and point cloud data generated by 8tree's dentCHECK tool, suggesting increased capability to evaluate damage, enabling more targeted interventions and, ultimately, saving costs.
Fatigue and aging of materials are, in large part, determined by the evolution of the atomic-scale structure in response to strains and perturbations.
This coupling between microscopic structure and long time scales remains one of the main challenges in materials study.
Focusing on a model system, ion-damaged crystalline silicon, we combine nanocalorimetric experiments with an off-lattice kinetic Monte Carlo simulation to identify the atomistic mechanisms responsible for the structural relaxation over long time scales.
We relate the logarithmic relaxation, observed in a number of systems, with heat-release measurements.
The microscopic mechanism associated with logarithmic relaxation can be described as a two-step replenish and relax process.
As the system relaxes, it reaches deeper energy states with logarithmically growing barriers that need to be unlocked to replenish the heat-releasing events leading to lower energy configurations.
Digital image correlation is a widely used technique in the field of experimental mechanics.
In fracture mechanics, determining the precise location of the crack tip is crucial. In this paper, we introduce a universal crack tip detection algorithm based on displacement and strain fields obtained by digital image correlation.
Iterative crack tip correction formulas are discovered by applying deep symbolic regression guided by physical unit constraints to a dataset of simulated cracks under mode I, II and mixed-mode conditions with variable T-stress.
For the training dataset, we fit the Williams series expansion with super-singular terms to the simulated displacement fields at randomly chosen origins around the actual crack tip.
We analyse the discovered formulas and apply the most promising one to digital image correlation data obtained from uniaxial and biaxial fatigue crack growth experiments of AA2024-T3 sheet material. Throughout the experiments, the crack tip positions are reliably detected leading to improved stability of the crack propagation curves.
It has been demonstrated that acoustic-emission (AE), inspection of structures can offer advantages over other types of monitoring techniques in the detection of damage; namely, an increased sensitivity to damage, as well as an ability to localise its source.
There are, however, numerous challenges associated with the analysis of AE data.
One issue is the high sampling frequencies required to capture AE activity.
In just a few seconds, a recording can generate very high volumes of data, of which a significant portion may be of little interest for analysis.
Identifying the individual AE events in a recorded time-series is therefore a necessary procedure to reduce the size of the dataset.
Another challenge that is also generally encountered in practice, is determining the sources of AE, which is an important exercise if one wishes to enhance the quality of the diagnostic scheme.
In this paper, a state-of-the-art technique is presented that can automatically identify AE events, and simultaneously help in their characterisation from a probabilistic perspective.
A nonparametric Bayesian approach, based on the Dirichlet process (DP), is employed to overcome some of the challenges associated with these tasks.
Two main sets of AE data are considered in this work: (1) from a journal bearing in operation, and (2) from an Airbus A320 main landing gear subjected to fatigue testing.
This study investigates deep offshore, pumping Airborne Wind Energy systems, focusing on the kite-platform interaction.
The considered system includes a 360 m2 soft-wing kite, connected by a tether to a winch installed on a 10-meter-deep spar with four mooring lines.
Wind power is converted into electricity with a feedback controlled periodic trajectory of the kite and corresponding reeling motion of the tether.
An analysis of the mutual influence between the platform and the kite dynamics, with different wave regimes, reveals a rather small sensitivity of the flight pattern to the platform oscillations; on the other hand, the frequency of tether force oscillations can be close to the platform resonance peaks, resulting in possible increased fatigue loads and damage of the floating and submerged components.
A control design procedure is then proposed to avoid this problem, acting on the kite path planner.
Simulation results confirm the effectiveness of the approach.
Failure in brittle materials led by the evolution of micro- to macro-cracks under repetitive or increasing loads is often catastrophic with no significant plasticity to advert the onset of fracture.
Early failure detection with respective location are utterly important features in any practical application, both of which can be effectively addressed using artificial intelligence.
In this paper, we develop a supervised machine learning (ML) framework to predict failure in an isothermal, linear elastic and isotropic phase-field model for damage and fatigue of brittle materials.
Time-series data of the phase-field model is extracted from virtual sensing nodes at different locations of the geometry.
A pattern recognition scheme is introduced to represent time-series data/sensor nodes responses as a pattern with a corresponding label, integrated with ML algorithms, used for damage classification with identified patterns.
We perform an uncertainty analysis by superposing random noise to the time-series data to assess the robustness of the framework with noise-polluted data.
Results indicate that the proposed framework is capable of predicting failure with acceptable accuracy even in the presence of high noise levels.
The findings demonstrate satisfactory performance of the supervised ML framework, and the applicability of artificial intelligence and ML to a practical engineering problem, i.,e, data-driven failure prediction in brittle materials.
It is widely known that hydrogels, a class of soft materials made of a polymer chain network, are prone to fatigue failure.
To understand the underlying mechanism, here we simulate polymer scission and fatigue initiation in the vicinity of a crack tip in a two-dimensional chain network.
For a network without pores, our findings reveal that polymer scission can take place across multiple layers of chains, rather than just a single layer as assumed in the classical Lake-Thomas theory, in consistency with previus studies.
For a network with a high density of micropores, our results demonstrate that the pores can substantially enhance the intrinsic fracture energy of the network in direct proportion to the pore size.
The underlying mechanism is attributed to pore-pore interactions which lead to a relatively uniform distribution of cohesive energy ahead of the crack tip.
Our model suggests that micropores could be a promising strategy for improving the intrinsic fracture energy of hydrogels and that natural porous tissues may have evolved for enhanced fatigue resistance.
Gesture-based interfaces are often used to achieve a more natural and intuitive teleoperation of robots.
Yet, sometimes, gesture control requires postures or movements that cause significant fatigue to the user.
In a previous user study, we demonstrated that naïve users can control a fixed-wing drone with torso movements while their arms are spread out.
However, this posture induced significant arm fatigue.
In this work, we present a passive arm support that compensates the arm weight with a mean torque error smaller than 0.005 N/kg for more than 97% of the range of motion used by subjects to fly, therefore reducing muscular fatigue in the shoulder of on average 58%.
In addition, this arm support is designed to fit users from the body dimension of the 1st percentile female to the 99th percentile male.
The performance analysis of the arm support is described with a mechanical model and its implementation is validated with both a mechanical characterization and a user study, which measures the flight performance, the shoulder muscle activity and the user acceptance.
Pumped storage type hydropower plants play an important role in mitigating real-time energy flexibility.
Reversible pump-turbines undergo extreme operating conditions such as runaway and speed-no-load.
Very limited studies are undertaken to understand the stochastic flow under these conditions in the reversible pump-turbine.
The present study investigates the unsteady vortical flow, its transportation, and interaction with the blades at speed-no-load.
Large eddy simulations are conducted in both turbine and pump modes.
The computational domain contains 120 million nodes.
Numerical results provided evidence of a large longitudinal vortex that develops on the high-pressure side of the blade, and transports into the blade passage and develops the unsteady "string of swirls".
The results also showed another "string of swirls" in the draft tube, where flow in the center is reversible (pumping).
The resulting flow instability is very high, and it has the potential to induce fatigue damage to the blades.
Slender structures immersed in a cross flow can experience vibrations induced by vortex shedding (VIV), which cause fatigue damage and other problems.
VIV models in engineering use today tend to operate in the frequency domain.
A time domain model would allow to capture the chaotic nature of VIV and to model interactions with other loads and non-linearities.
Such a model was developed in the present work: for each cross section, recent velocity history is compressed using Laguerre polynomials.
The compressed information is used to enter an interpolation function to predict the instantaneous force, allowing to step the dynamic analysis.
An offshore riser was modeled in this way: Some analyses provided an unusually fine level of realism, while in other analyses, the riser fell into an unphysical pattern of vibration.
It is concluded that the concept is promissing, yet that more work is needed to understand orbit stability and related issues, in order to further progress towards an engineering tool.
A generic formulation for the optimal control of a single wave-energy converter (WEC) is proposed.
The formulation involves hard and soft constraints on the motion of the WEC to promote reduced damage and fatigue to the device during operation.
Most of the WEC control literature ignores the cost of the control and could therefore result in generating less power than expected, or even negative power.
Therefore, to ensure actual power gains in practice, we incorporate a penalty term in the objective function to approximate the cost of applying the control force.
A discretization of the resulting optimal control problem is a quadratic optimization problem that can be solved efficiently using state-of-the-art solvers.
Using hydrodynamic coefficients estimated by simulations made in WEC-Sim, numerical illustrations are provided of the trade-off between careful operation of the device and power generated.
Finally, a demonstration of the real-time use of the approach is provided.
It has been shown that temperature cycles on airless bodies of our Solar System can cause damaging of surface materials.
Nevertheless, propagation mechanisms in the case of space objects are still poorly understood.
Present work combines a thermoelasticity model together with linear elastic fracture mechanics theory to predict fracture propagation in the presence of thermal gradients generated by diurnal temperature cycling and under conditions similar to those existing on the asteroid Bennu.
The crack direction is computed using the maximal strain energy release rate criterion, which is implemented using finite elements and the so-called G$θ$ method (Uribe-Suárez et al. 2020.
Using the implemented methodology, crack propagation direction for an initial crack tip in different positions and for different orientations is computed.
It is found that cracks preferentially propagate in the North to South (N-S), in the North-East to South-West (NE-SW) and in the North-West to South-East (NW-SE) directions.
Finally, thermal fatigue analysis was performed in order to estimate the crack growth rate.
Computed value is in good agreement with available experimental evidence.
Elastic strain energy is stored and released from long, distal tendons such as the Achilles during locomotion, reducing locomotor energy cost by minimising muscle shortening distance and speed, and thus activation.
However, numerous additional, often unrecognised, advantages of long tendons may speculatively be of greater evolutionary advantage, including the reduced limb inertia afforded by shorter and lighter muscles (reducing proximal muscle force requirement); reduced energy dissipation during the foot-ground collision; capacity to store and reuse the muscle work done to dampen the vibrations triggered by foot-ground collisions; and attenuation of work-induced muscle damage.
Cumulatively, these effects should reduce both neuromotor fatigue and sense of locomotor effort, allowing humans to choose to move at faster speeds for longer.
As these benefits are greater at faster locomotor speeds, they are consistent with the hypothesis that running gaits used by our ancestors exerted substantial evolutionary pressure on Achilles tendon length.
Drowsiness driving is a major cause of traffic accidents and thus numerous previous researches have focused on driver drowsiness detection.
Many drive relevant factors have been taken into consideration for fatigue detection and can lead to high precision, but there are still several serious constraints, such as most existing models are environmentally susceptible.
In this paper, fatigue detection is considered as temporal action detection problem instead of image classification.
The proposed detection system can be divided into four parts: (1) Localize the key patches of the detected driver picture which are critical for fatigue detection and calculate the corresponding optical flow.
(2) Contrast Limited Adaptive Histogram Equalization (CLAHE) is used in our system to reduce the impact of different light conditions.
(3) Three individual two-stream networks combined with attention mechanism are designed for each feature to extract temporal information.
(4) The outputs of the three sub-networks will be concatenated and sent to the fully-connected network, which judges the status of the driver.
The drowsiness detection system is trained and evaluated on the famous Nation Tsing Hua University Driver Drowsiness Detection (NTHU-DDD) dataset and we obtain an accuracy of 94.46%, which outperforms most existing fatigue detection models.
Combining optical and ultrasonic imaging to shear rheology we show that the failure scenario of a protein gel is reminiscent of brittle solids: after a primary creep regime characterized by a power-law behavior which exponent is fully accounted for by linear viscoelasticity, fractures nucleate and grow logarithmically perpendicularly to shear, up to the sudden rupture of the gel.
These results are in excellent agreement with recent fiber-bundle models that include damage accumulation on elastic fibers and exemplify protein gels as model, brittle-like soft solids.
Adhesive joints are increasingly used in industry for a wide variety of applications because of their favorable characteristics such as high strength-to-weight ratio, design flexibility, limited stress concentrations, planar force transfer, good damage tolerance, and fatigue resistance.
Finding the optimal process parameters for an adhesive bonding process is challenging: the optimization is inherently multi-objective (aiming to maximize break strength while minimizing cost), constrained (the process should not result in any visual damage to the materials, and stress tests should not result in failures that are adhesion-related), and uncertain (testing the same process parameters several times may lead to different break strengths).
Real-life physical experiments in the lab are expensive to perform.
Traditional evolutionary approaches (such as genetic algorithms) are then ill-suited to solve the problem, due to the prohibitive amount of experiments required for evaluation.
Although Bayesian optimization-based algorithms are preferred to solve such expensive problems, few methods consider the optimization of more than one (noisy) objective and several constraints at the same time.
In this research, we successfully applied specific machine learning techniques (Gaussian Process Regression) to emulate the objective and constraint functions based on a limited amount of experimental data.
The techniques are embedded in a Bayesian optimization algorithm, which succeeds in detecting Pareto-optimal process settings in a highly efficient way (i.e., requiring a limited number of physical experiments).
Vibrations are among main causes of fatigue and damages leading to destruction of rotating blades.
Consequently, motions of blades have to be carefully studied, and in particular, periodic components.
Blade Tip-Timing (BTT) methods achieve non-intrusive measurements which is a great advantage with respect to classical methods.
They can be modelled by a Periodic Nonuniform Sampling of order L equal to the number of probes (PNSL).
In this paper, we develop the case L=2, and we prove that this model is sufficient for finding the places of asynchronous frequency lines, with their amplitudes and their phases.
To increase L will increase the redundance and then the accuracy of the method.
The reliability of the mercury spallation target is mission-critical for the neutron science program of the spallation neutron source at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
We present an inverse uncertainty quantification (UQ) study using the Bayesian framework for the mercury equation of state model parameters, with the assistance of polynomial chaos expansion surrogate models.
By leveraging high-fidelity structural mechanics simulations and real measured strain data, the inverse UQ results reveal a maximum-a-posteriori estimate, mean, and standard deviation of $6.5\times 10^4$ ($6.49\times 10^4 \pm 2.39\times 10^3$) Pa for the tensile cutoff threshold, $12112.1$ ($12111.8 \pm 14.9$) kg/m$^3$ for the mercury density, and $1850.4$ ($1849.7 \pm 5.3$) m/s for the mercury speed of sound.
These values do not necessarily represent the nominal mercury physical properties, but the ones that fit the strain data and the solid mechanics model we have used, and can be explained by three reasons: The limitations of the computer model or what is known as the model-form uncertainty, the biases and errors in the experimental data, and the mercury cavitation damage that also contributes to the change in mercury behavior.
Consequently, the equation of state model parameters try to compensate for these effects to improve fitness to the data.
The mercury target simulations using the updated parametric values result in an excellent agreement with 88% average accuracy compared to experimental data, 6% average increase compared to reference parameters, with some sensors experiencing an increase of more than 25%.
With a more accurate simulated strain response, the component fatigue analysis can utilize the comprehensive strain history data to evaluate the target vessel's lifetime closer to its real limit, saving tremendous target costs.
Bantele and colleagues recently reported that repair of a single CRISPR/Cas9-induced DNA double-strand break (DSB) in the c-MYC topologically associated domain leads to a persistent depletion of chromatin interactions and long-term transcriptional attenuation across multiple generations of human cells.
They interpret this observation as evidence for a previously unrecognized principle--"chromatin fatigue"--in which DSB repair generates a stable architectural defect that acts as a heritable impairment to genome function.
Such an idea, if correct, would carry profound implications for genome biology, epigenetic inheritance, cancer evolution, aging, and the safety of therapeutic genome editing.
However, our detailed reassessment of the experimental design, underlying assumptions, and data interpretation reveals that the evidence provided is inadequate to support these sweeping conclusions.
Instead, the observed outcomes are more plausibly explained by a combination of Cas9 persistence, off-target DNA damage, repair-factor retention, MYC enhancer plasticity, and the well-documented genomic instability of HeLa cells.
The study does not demonstrate mechanistic causality, does not exclude simpler explanations, and does not provide data consistent with true chromatin memory or heritable architectural change.
Moreover, its statistical inferences are based on noisy measurements that fall within expected variability of unstable oncogenic loci.
Here, we present a comprehensive critical analysis showing that the proposed model of chromatin fatigue is unsupported by the available evidence.
We offer a corrected interpretation in which the chromatin landscape experiences a temporary, repair-associated perturbation that resolves without leaving enduring or heritable impairment.
Multiphase titanium alloys are critical materials in high value engineering components, for instance in aero engines.
Microstructural complexity is exploited through interface engineering during mechanical processing to realise significant improvements in fatigue and fracture resistance and strength.
In this work, we explore the role of select interfaces using in-situ micromechanical testing with concurrent observations from high angular resolution electron backscatter diffraction (HR-EBSD).
Our results are supported with post mortem transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
Using micro-pillar compression, we performed in-depth analysis of the role of select β-titanium (body centred cubic) ligaments which separate neighbouring α-titanium (hexagonal close packed) regions and inhibit the dislocation motion and impact strength during mechanical deformation.
These results shed light on the strengthening mechanisms and those that can lead to strain localisation during fatigue and failure.
A neutrino horn based on a solenoid lens offers several potential advantages over a conventionl toroidal horn when used with a multimegawatt proton source to pursue studies of CP violation in neutrino oscillations. 1) A solenoid horn can produce a neutrino spectrum with a sequence of peaks at momenta P = P_0 / (2 n + 1), which has the same form as the sequence of momenta at which the neutrino oscillation probability is maximal for a fixed distance from source to detector. 2) The neutrino flux is a roughly equal mixture of neutrinos and antineutrinos. 3) Rates of electron neutrinos from muon decay are suppressed relative to those in a broad-band neutrino beam. 4) A solenoid magnet has its coils far from the axis where the target is located, and hence the coils are more readily protected from radiation damage. 5) A solenoid magnet is readily compatible with a liquid metal target, as will be needed for use with very intense proton sources. 6) A solenoid magnet is a DC device, and hence not subject to pulse fatigue as for a conventional toroidal horn.
In rehabilitation, powered, and teleoperation exoskeletons, connecting the human body to the exoskeleton through binding attachments is a common configuration.
However, the uncertainty of the tightness and the donning deviation of the binding attachments will affect the flexibility and comfort of the exoskeletons, especially during high-speed movement.
To address this challenge, this paper presents a flexible exoskeleton control approach with binding alignment and full-arm coordination.
Firstly, the sources of the force interaction caused by donning offsets are analyzed, based on which the interactive force data is classified into the major, assistant, coordination, and redundant component categories.
Then, a binding alignment strategy (BAS) is proposed to reduce the donning disturbances by combining different force data.
Furthermore, we propose a full-arm coordination mechanism (FCM) that focuses on two modes of arm movement intent, joint-oriented and target-oriented, to improve the flexible performance of the whole exoskeleton control during high-speed motion.
In this method, we propose an algorithm to distinguish the two intentions to resolve the conflict issue of the force component.
Finally, a series of experiments covering various aspects of exoskeleton performance (flexibility, adaptability, accuracy, speed, and fatigue) were conducted to demonstrate the benefits of our control framework in our full-arm exoskeleton.
Virtual sensing techniques have gained traction in applications to the structural health monitoring of monopile-based offshore wind turbines, as the strain response below the mudline, which is a primary indicator of fatigue damage accumulation, is impractical to measure directly with physical instrumentation.
The Gaussian process latent force model (GPFLM) is a generalized Bayesian virtual sensing technique which combines a physics-driven model of the structure with a data-driven model of latent variables of the system to extrapolate unmeasured strain states.
In the GPLFM, modeling of unknown sources of excitation as a Gaussian process (GP) serves to facilitate strain estimation by providing a complete stochastic characterization of the covariance relationship between input forces and states, using properties of the GP covariance kernel as well as correlation information supplied by the mechanical model.
It is shown that posterior inference of the latent inputs and states is performed by Gaussian process regression of measured accelerations, computed efficiently using Kalman filtering and Rauch-Tung-Striebel smoothing in an augmented state-space model.
While the GPLFM has been previously demonstrated in numerical studies to improve upon other virtual sensing techniques in terms of accuracy, robustness, and numerical stability, this work provides one of the first cases of in-situ validation of the GPLFM.
The predicted strain response by the GPLFM is compared to subsoil strain data collected from an operating offshore wind turbine in the Westermeerwind Park in the Netherlands.
This study demonstrates the first realization of wireless strain, temperature and crack growth sensing within 3D-printed metallic structures using standard electromagnetic inspection hardware.
This establishes a path toward need-based maintenance for parts operating in harsh environments driven by accurate, real-time damage assessments instead of relying on regularly scheduled maintenance teardowns.
To this end, we encapsulate and embed magnetoelastic and thermomagnetic materials during additive manufacturing.
Mechanical and thermal stimuli affect the magnetic permeability of the embedded materials, which modulates the flux through a coil placed on or near the part's surface.
We demonstrate strain sensing accurate to +/-27x10-6 and temperature sensing accurate to +/-0.75 oC.
We highlight these sensors' capabilities by detecting the onset of plasticity and fatigue-driven crack growth thousands of cycles before critical failure.
The link between microscopic mechanisms and macroscopic behaviour, represented by the $da/dN-ΔK$ curve, plays an increasingly important role in relating the fatigue crack growth curve required for component design to the underlying physics.
High-resolution digital image correlation (HR-DIC) allows for in-depth analysis of microscopic fatigue crack growth mechanisms, but is rarely used to determine the SIF of the crack tip.
This paper examines the applicability of the interaction integral in HR-DIC data and identifies factors that should be considered when evaluating the integral results.
A major influence is the integration near the PZ, which leads to an erroneous increase in the calculated SIF result.
In addition, the large integration path gaps required in HR-DIC around the crack path significantly hinder accurate results.
The effect of the crack face contact is overall small.
While it slightly increases the SIF result, it does not correlate with the crack opening load $K_\mathrm{op}$.
The Mu2e experiment at Fermilab will search for the charged lepton flavour violating process of coherent neutrinoless muon-to-electron conversion in the presence of an aluminum nucleus.
The muons are produced by an 8 GeV proton beam from the Fermilab Booster striking a production target to create hadrons that decay to muons.
The production target design space is strongly constrained by a required one-year operating lifetime and the need for radiative cooling in a vacuum.
Uncertainties in the lifetime of the existing baseline design - a monolithic, segmented tungsten (WL10) target - are large, particularly due to unknown effects of radiation damage at the very high proton fluences expected in the experiment.
We have begun evaluating a new design utilizing Inconel 718.
Here, we present an engineering analysis of a prototype modular design. specifically thermal management, structural stability, fatigue lifetime, and fabrication changes.
The results approve a promising new target design for the Mu2e experiment.
In this paper theoretical and statistical/experimental criteria for determining the nanoscale strength of materials are proposed.
In particular, quantized criteria in fracture mechanics, dynamic fracture mechanics and fatigue, as well as an experimental indirect observation of the nanoscale strength, are proposed.
The increasing of the dynamic resistance and the role of a fractal crack surface formation are also rationalized.
The analysis shows that materials can be sensitive to flaws also at nanoscale (as demonstrated for carbon nanotubes), in contrast to the conclusion of a recently published paper, and that the surfaces are weaker than the inner parts of a solid by a factor of about 10%.
In addition, the proposed statistical/experimental procedure is applied for predicting the nanoscale strength of the ultrananocrystalline diamond (UNCD), an innovative material only recently developed.
In many contexts the modal properties of a structure change, either due to the impact of a changing environment, fatigue, or due to the presence of structural damage.
For example during flight, an aircraft's modal properties are known to change with both altitude and velocity.
It is thus important to quantify these changes given only a truncated set of modal data, which is usually the case experimentally.
This procedure is formally known as the generalised inverse eigenvalue problem.
In this paper we experimentally show that first-order gradient-based methods that optimise objective functions defined over a modal are prohibitive due to the required small step sizes.
This in turn leads to the justification of using a non-gradient, black box optimiser in the form of particle swarm optimisation.
We further show how it is possible to solve such inverse eigenvalue problems in a lower dimensional space by the use of random projections, which in many cases reduces the total dimensionality of the optimisation problem by 80% to 99%.
Two example problems are explored involving a ten-dimensional mass-stiffness toy problem, and a one-dimensional finite element mass-stiffness approximation for a Boeing 737-300 aircraft.
Slender marine structures such as deep-water marine risers are subjected to currents and will normally experience Vortex Induced Vibrations (VIV), which can cause fast accumulation of fatigue damage.
The ocean current is often three-dimensional (3D), i.e., the direction and magnitude of the current vary throughout the water column.
Today, semi-empirical tools are used by the industry to predict VIV induced fatigue on risers.
The load model and hydrodynamic parameters in present VIV prediction tools are developed based on two-dimensional (2D) flow conditions, as it is challenging to consider the effect of 3D flow along the risers.
Accordingly, the current profiles must be purposely made 2D during the design process, which leads to significant uncertainty in the prediction results.
Further, due to the limitations in the laboratory, VIV model tests are mostly carried out under 2D flow conditions and thus little experimental data exist to document VIV response of riser subjected to varying directions of the current.
However, a few experiments have been conducted with 3D current.
We have used results from one of these experiments to investigate how well 1) traditional and 2) an alternative method based on a data driven prediction can describe VIV in 3D currents.
Data driven modelling is particularly suited for complicated problems with many parameters and non-linear relationships.
We have applied a data clustering algorithm to the experimental 3D flow data in order to identify measurable parameters that can influence responses.
The riser responses are grouped based on their statistical characteristics, which relate to the direction of the flow.
Furthermore we fit a random forest regression model to the measured VIV response and compare its performance with the predictions of existing VIV prediction tools (VIVANA-FD).
Wurtzite ferroelectrics (e.g., $\mathrm{Al_{0.93}B_{0.07}N}$) are being explored for high-temperature and emerging near-, or in-compute, memory architectures due to the material advantages offered by their large remanent polarization and robust chemical stability.
Despite these advantages, current $\mathrm{Al_{0.93}B_{0.07}N}$ devices do not have sufficient endurance lifetime to meet roadmap targets.
To identify the defects responsible for this limited endurance, a combination of electronic measurements and optical spectroscopies characterized the evolution of defect states within $\mathrm{Al_{0.93}B_{0.07}N}$ with cycling.
Ultrathin ($\sim$10 nm) metal contacts were used to optically probe regions subject to ferroelectric switching; photoluminescence spectroscopy identified the emergence of a transition near 2.1 eV whose intensity scaled with the non-switching polarization quantified via positive-up negative-down (PUND) measurements.
Accompanying thermally stimulated depolarization current (TSDC) and modulus spectroscopy measurements also observed the strengthening of a state near 2.1 eV.
The origin of this feature is ascribed to transitions between a nitrogen vacancy and another defect deeper in the bandgap.
Recognizing that the impurity concentration is largely fixed, strengthening of this transition indicates an increase in the number of nitrogen vacancies.
Switching, therefore, creates vacancies in $\mathrm{Al_{0.93}B_{0.07}N}$ likely due to hot-atom damage induced by the aggressive fields necessary to switch wurtzite materials that ultimately limits endurance.
A possible design rule for preventing surface damage from thermal transients to solid tungsten armour is proposed and formulated for the plasma facing components (divertor, first wall) of magnetic fusion machines.
The rule is based on combined results from laboratory experiments and operating fusion machines, and fundamental engineering principles such as the heat flux factor (FHF) and fatigue usage fraction (FUF).
As an example, the rule would allow 2.10 4 transient heat loads cycles at a FHF of 10 MJm${}^{-2}$s${}^{-\frac{1}{2}}$ before the lifetime is considered exhausted.
The formulation of the rule using engineering principles allows combining loads of different magnitudes and various number of cycles.
A practical example of the rule usage is provided, illustrating loads combination and how the rule may contribute to the component geometrical design.
The proposed rule is only valid for surface loading conditions, hence is not usable for volumetric loading conditions such as runaway electrons.
Setting a budget lifetime and a design rule does not preclude actual plasma operation beyond the design lifetime.
It is actually normal that experimental devices explore a larger domain than the one defined at the time of the design.
We give a generic description of a liquid mirror system and summarize some practical information useful to making them.
We compare laboratory measurements of deformations, due to the weight of mercury on the container of a 3.7-m mirror and to temperature changes on a 1-m container, to finite element computer simulations.
We find that the measurements agree reasonably well with the numerical simulations.
The measurements on the 1-m container show no evidence of fatigue after a few thermal cycles.
These results validate the computer models of containers described in a companion article.
Elastocaloric cooling has been identified as a promising alternative to high global warming potential vapor compression cooling.
Two key bottlenecks to adoption are the need for bulky/expensive actuators to provide sufficient uniaxial stress and inadequate elastocaloric material fatigue life.
This paper defines the physics that govern performance of axisymmetric flexural bending for use as an emerging low-force and low-fatigue elastocaloric heating and cooling mechanism and further demonstrates a continuous rotary-driven cooling prototype using polycrcrystalline Ni50.7Ti48.9.
Elastocaloric material performance is determined using infrared thermography during uniaxial-tension and four-point bending thermomechanical testing.
A systematic study reveals the effects of strain rate (from 0.001 to 0.025 s-1), maximum strain (from 2 to 8%), and strain mode on the temperature evolution, mechanical response, and coefficient of performance.
Four-point bending experiments demonstrate a temperature reduction up to 11.3°C, material coefficients of performance between 2.31 and 21.71, and a 6.09- to 7.75-fold reduction in required actuation force compared to uniaxial tension.
The absence of Lüders bands and reduced mechanical dissipation during flexure represent reduced microstructure degradation and improved fatigue life.
The rotary-based elastocaloric cooling prototype is shown to provide similar thermomechanical performance with the added benefit of discrete hot and cold zones, continuous cooling, inexpensive rotary actuation, and scalability, which represents a significant advancement for compact, long lifetime, and inexpensive elastocaloric cooling.
Wind turbines operating within wind farms experience complex aerodynamic loading arising from the interplay between wake-induced velocity deficits, enhanced turbulence, and varying operational conditions.
Understanding the relationship between the blade's structural response to the different operating regimes and flow structures generated in the turbine's wake is critical for predicting fatigue damage and optimizing turbine performance.
In this work, we implement a novel technique, allowing us to simultaneously measure spatially distributed blade strain and wake dynamics for a model wind turbine under controlled free-stream turbulence (FST) and tip-speed ratio ($λ$) conditions.
A $1$ $\mathrm{m}$ diameter three-bladed rotor was instrumented with distributed Rayleigh backscattering fibre-optic sensors, while synchronised hot-wire anemometry captured wake evolution up to $4$ rotor diameters downstream.
Experiments were conducted covering a wide $\{\mathrm{FST}, λ\}$ parameter space -- $21$ cases in total. Results reveal that aerodynamic-induced strain fluctuations peak at $λ\approx 3.5$, close to the design tip -speed ratio ($λ_d = 4$), with the blade's tip experiencing a contribution from the aerodynamically-driven strain fluctuations of up to $75\%$ of the total fluctuating strain at design conditions.
Spectral analysis shows frequency-selective coupling between wake flow structures and the blade response, dominated by flow structures dynamically related to the rotor's rotating frequency (\textit{eg.} tip vortex structure).
The novel experimental methodology and results establish a data-driven foundation for future aeroelastic models' validation, and fatigue-informed control strategies.
The mechanisms involved in the polarization switching process in soft and hard Pb(Zr53, Ti47)O3 (PZT) bulk ceramics were investigated through the dependency of the hysteresis loop on the frequency.
In order to determine the influence of the defects on the domain switching dynamics the samples were characterized in the virgin state and after a fatigue or a depinning process.
The frequency dependence of the polarization revealed a strong relaxation of the 90 domain walls at 100 Hz.
The results also revealed a strong influence of the kind of defect and their distribution into the ferroelectric matrix on the domain switching dynamics, which reflected in the frequency dependence of the coercive field and the percentage of the backswitching.
Initially, it was observed that the frequency dependence of the coercive field for the soft and the hard PZT in the virgin state had just one rate of change per decade in all frequency range investigated, which is the standard behavior found in the literature.
However, after the fatigue or the depinning process two rates of changes were noticed.
Consequently, an evidence of an upper frequency limit for the coercive field changes was found.
The percentage of the backswitching and its behavior for the soft PZT was almost independent of the fatigue state in all frequency range investigated.
Nevertheless, for the hard PZT an opposite behavior was verified.
The reorientation of the domains was modeled as occurring in a viscous medium where several forces such as viscous and restoring forces act on them.
Biological systems represent time from microseconds to years.
An important gap in our knowledge concerns the mechanisms for encoding time intervals of hundreds of milliseconds to minutes that matter for tasks like navigation, communication, storage, recall, and prediction of stimulus patterns.
A recently identified mechanism in fish thalamic neurons addresses this gap.
Representation of intervals between events uses the ubiquitous property of neural fatigue, where firing adaptation sets in quickly during an event.
The recovery from fatigue by the next stimulus is a monotonous function of time elapsed.
Here we develop a full theory for the representation of intervals, allowing for recovery time scales and sensitivity to past stimuli to vary across cells.
Our Bayesian framework combines parametrically heterogeneous stochastic dynamical modeling with interval priors to predict available timing information independent of actual decoding mechanism.
A compromise is found between optimally encoding the latest time interval and previous ones, crucial for spatial navigation.
Cellular heterogeneity is actually necessary to represent interval sequences, a novel computational role for experimentally observed heterogeneity.
This biophysical adaptation-based timing memory shapes spatiotemporal information for efficient storage and recall in target recurrent networks.
Cortical networks, in-vitro as well as in-vivo, can spontaneously generate a variety of collective dynamical events such as network spikes, UP and DOWN states, global oscillations, and avalanches.
Though each of them have been variously recognized in previous works as expressions of the excitability of the cortical tissue and the associated nonlinear dynamics, a unified picture of their determinant factors (dynamical and architectural) is desirable and not yet available.
Progress has also been partially hindered by the use of a variety of statistical measures to define the network events of interest.
We propose here a common probabilistic definition of network events that, applied to the firing activity of cultured neural networks, highlights the co-occurrence of network spikes, power-law distributed avalanches, and exponentially distributed `quasi-orbits', which offer a third type of collective behavior.
A rate model, including synaptic excitation and inhibition with no imposed topology, synaptic short-term depression, and finite-size noise, accounts for all these different, coexisting phenomena.
We find that their emergence is largely regulated by the proximity to an oscillatory instability of the dynamics, where the non-linear excitable behavior leads to a self-amplification of activity fluctuations over a wide range of scales in space and time.
In this sense, the cultured network dynamics is compatible with an excitation-inhibition balance corresponding to a slightly sub-critical regime.
Finally, we propose and test a method to infer the characteristic time of the fatigue process, from the observed time course of the network's firing rate.
Unlike the model, possessing a single fatigue mechanism, the cultured network appears to show multiple time scales, signalling the possible coexistence of different fatigue mechanisms.
The decay rate of aftershocks is commonly very well described by the modified Omori law, $n(t) \propto t^{-p}$, where n(t) is the number of aftershocks per unit time, t is the time after the main shock, and p is a constant in the range 0.9<p<1.5, and usually close to 1.
But there are also more complex aftershock sequences for which the Omori law can be considered only as a first approximation.
One of these complex aftershock sequences took place in the Eastern Pyrenees on February 18, 1996, and was described in detail by {\it Correig et al.} [1997].
In this paper, we propose a new model inspired by dynamic fiber-bundle models to interpret this type of complex aftershock sequences with sudden increases in the rate of aftershock production not directly related to the magnitude of the aftershocks (as in the epidemic-type aftershock sequences).
The model is a simple, discrete, stochastic fracture model where the elements (asperities or barriers) break because of static fatigue, transfer stress according to a local load-sharing rule and then are regenerated.
We find a very good agreement between the model and the Eastern Pyrenees aftershock sequence and we propose that the key mechanism for explaining aftershocks, apart from a time-dependent rock strength, is the presence of dynamic stress fluctuations which constantly reset the initial conditions for the next aftershock in the sequence.
Running is a fundamental form of human locomotion and a key task for evaluating neuromuscular control and lower-limb coordination.
In recent years, muscle synergy analysis based on surface electromyography (sEMG) has become an important approach in this area.
This review focuses on muscle synergies during running, outlining core neural control theories and biomechanical optimization hypotheses, summarizing commonly used decomposition methods (e.g., PCA, ICA, FA, NMF) and emerging autoencoder-based approaches.
We synthesize findings on the development and evolution of running-related synergies across the lifespan, examine how running surface, speed, foot-strike pattern, fatigue, and performance level modulate synergy patterns, and describe characteristic alterations in populations with knee osteoarthritis, patellofemoral pain, and stroke.
Current evidence suggests that the number and basic structure of lower-limb synergies during running are relatively stable, whereas spatial muscle weightings and motor primitives are highly plastic and sensitive to task demands, fatigue, and pathology.
However, substantial methodological variability remains in EMG channel selection, preprocessing pipelines, and decomposition algorithms, and direct neurophysiological validation and translational application are still limited.
Future work should prioritize standardized processing protocols, integration of multi-source neuromusculoskeletal data, nonlinear modeling, and longitudinal intervention studies to better exploit muscle synergy analysis in sports biomechanics, athletic training, and rehabilitation medicine.
Sloped terrains tend to creep downward over time, even when their slope is below the nominal angle of repose.
This behavior can result from periodic variations in environmental conditions, such as daily or seasonal fluctuations in temperature and humidity.
We study this process by considering a model of an athermal yield stress material under an applied stress lower than the critical yield stress value $σ_c$.
Normally, in such a situation the material does not flow at all.
However, under cyclic temporal variation of system parameters a finite amount of irreversible deformation can remain after each cycle, and a long term steady-state flow of the whole system can be induced.
In our model, we cycle the strength of internal elastic interactions to mimic the effect of cyclic variation of environmental conditions in the real soils.
We find that the amount of deformation per cycle increases if $σ_c$ is approached from below, and it decreases and even vanishes at a novel critical stress $σ_0<σ_c$ when this, in turn, is reached from above.
Interestingly, $σ_0$ plays a role similar to the endurance limit in the context of fatigue damage propagation.
Despite the model's simplicity, our results offer a fresh perspective on subcritical landform evolution, with implications for the creep of hill slopes over long periods and the precursors to runaway landslides.
The remaining useful life (RUL) estimation is an important metric that helps in condition-based maintenance.
Damage data obtained from the diagnostics techniques are often noisy and the RUL estimated from the data is less reliable.
Estimating the probabilistic RUL by quantifying the uncertainty in the predictive model parameters using the noisy data increases confidence in the predicted values.
Uncertainty quantification methods generate statistical samples for the model parameters, that represent the uncertainty, by evaluating the predictive model several times.
The computational time for solving a physics-based predictive model is significant, which makes the statistical techniques to be computationally expensive.
It is essential to reduce the computational time to estimate the RUL in a feasible time.
In this work, real-time probabilistic RUL estimation is demonstrated in adhesively bonded joints using the Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) sampling method and cloud-based computations.
The SMC sampling method is an alternative to traditional MCMC methods, which enables generating the statistical parameter samples in parallel.
The parallel computational capabilities of the SMC methods are exploited by running the SMC simulation on multiple cloud calls.
This approach is demonstrated by estimating fatigue RUL in the adhesively bonded joint.
The accuracy of probabilistic RUL estimated by SMC is validated by comparing it with RUL estimated by the MCMC and the experimental values.
The SMC simulation is run on the cloud and the computational speedup of the SMC is demonstrated.
Fatigue crack growth is one of the most common types of deterioration in metal structures with significant implications on their reliability.
Recent advances in Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) have motivated the use of structural response data to predict future crack growth under uncertainty, in order to enable a transition towards predictive maintenance.
Accurately representing different sources of uncertainty in stochastic crack growth (SCG) processes is a non-trivial task.
The present work builds on previous research on physics-based SCG modeling under both material and load-related uncertainty.
The aim here is to construct computationally efficient, probabilistic surrogate models for SCG processes that successfully encode these different sources of uncertainty.
An approach inspired by latent variable modeling is employed that utilizes Gaussian Process (GP) regression models to enable the surrogates to be used to generate prior distributions for different Bayesian SHM tasks as the application of interest.
Implementation is carried out in a numerical setting and model performance is assessed for two fundamental crack SHM problems; namely crack length monitoring (damage quantification) and crack growth monitoring (damage prognosis).
Solid state actuators (piezoelectric, ferroelectric, ...) deform under an external field, and have found many applications.
They respond fast, but their mechanical deformations are very small.
There is a need for soft actuators, giving larger responses, but necessarily less fast.
This paper describes the early attempts by Katchalsky and others, and the problems which showed up -related to time constants, and, most importantly, to fatigue.
Two current attempts are reviewed.
Acute mountain sickness (AMS) is a common problem among visitors at high altitude, and may progress to life-threatening pulmonary and cerebral oedema in a minority of cases.
International consensus defines AMS as a constellation of subjective, non-specific symptoms.
Specifically, headache, sleep disturbance, fatigue and dizziness are given equal diagnostic weighting.
Different pathophysiological mechanisms are now thought to underlie headache and sleep disturbance during acute exposure to high altitude.
Hence, these symptoms may not belong together as a single syndrome.
Using a novel visual analogue scale (VAS), we sought to undertake a systematic exploration of the symptomatology of AMS using an unbiased, data-driven approach originally designed for analysis of gene expression.
Symptom scores were collected from 293 subjects during 1110 subject-days at altitudes between 3650m and 5200m on Apex expeditions to Bolivia and Kilimanjaro.
Three distinct patterns of symptoms were consistently identified.
Although fatigue is a ubiquitous finding, sleep disturbance and headache are each commonly reported without the other.
The commonest pattern of symptoms was sleep disturbance and fatigue, with little or no headache.
In subjects reporting severe headache, 40% did not report sleep disturbance.
Sleep disturbance correlates poorly with other symptoms of AMS (Pearson r = 0.31 vs headache).
These results challenge the accepted paradigm that AMS is a single disease process and describe at least two distinct syndromes following acute ascent to high altitude.
This approach to analysing symptom patterns has potential utility in other clinical syndromes.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a sleep respiratory disease characterized by sleep snoring accompanied by apnea and daytime sleeplessness.
It is a complex disease, with the multifactorial etiology, and the pathology is incompletely understood.
Genioglossus (GG), the largest dilator of upper airway, whose fatigue is strongly correlated to onset of OSA.
This brief review was to investigate the pathogenesis of OSA targeting on GG from different risk factors as gender, obesity, and aging, and the molecular mechanism of GG injury in OSA pathogenesis.
We hope to find the targeted molecular mechanism on GG in OSA treatment.
Supersonic jet noise reduction is important for high speed military aircraft.
Lower acoustic levels would reduce structural fatigue leading to longer lifetime of the jet aircraft.
It is not solely structural aspects which are of importance, health issues of the pilot and the airfield per- sonnel are also very important, as high acoustic levels may result in severe hearing damage.
It remains a major challenge to reduce the overall noise levels of the aircraft, where the supersonic exhaust is the main noise source for near ground operation.
Fluidic injection into the supersonic jet at the nozzle exhaust has been shown as a promising method for noise reduction.
It has been shown to speed up the mix- ing process of the main jet, hence reducing the kinetic energy level of the jet and the power of the total acoustic radiation.
Furthermore, the interaction mechanism between the fluidic injection and the shock structure in the jet exhaust plays a crucial role in the total noise radia- tion.
In this study, LES is used to investigate the change in flow struc- tures of a supersonic (M=1.56) jet from a converging-diverging nozzle.
Six fluidic actuators, evenly distributed around the nozzle exit, inject air in a radial direction towards the main flow axis with a total mass flow ratio of 3%.
Steady injection is compared with flapping injection.
With flapping injection turned on, the injection angle of each injector is varied sinusoidally in the nozzle exit plane and the variation is the same for all injectors.
This fluid dynamics video is submitted to the APS DFD Gallery of Fluid Motion 2013 at the 66 the Annual Meeting of the American Physical Society, Division of Fluid Dynamics (24-26 November, Pittsburgh, PA, USA).
A non-stationary Gaussian random field model is developed based on a combination of the stochastic partial differential equation (SPDE) approach and the classical deformation method.
With the deformation method, a stationary field is defined on a domain which is deformed so that the field becomes non-stationary.
We show that if the stationary field is a Mat'ern field defined as a solution to a fractional SPDE, the resulting non-stationary model can be represented as the solution to another fractional SPDE on the deformed domain.
By defining the model in this way, the computational advantages of the SPDE approach can be combined with the deformation method's more intuitive parameterisation of non-stationarity.
In particular it allows for independent control over the non-stationary practical correlation range and the variance, which has not been possible with previously proposed non-stationary SPDE models.
The model is tested on spatial data of significant wave height, a characteristic of ocean surface conditions which is important when estimating the wear and risks associated with a planned journey of a ship.
The model parameters are estimated to data from the north Atlantic using a maximum likelihood approach.
The fitted model is used to compute wave height exceedance probabilities and the distribution of accumulated fatigue damage for ships traveling a popular shipping route.
The model results agree well with the data, indicating that the model could be used for route optimization in naval logistics.
In this work, the crack nucleation under fretting loading is investigated experimentally with a damage tolerant 2024 aluminium alloy.
A new method is introduced to determine its condition with respect to all loading parameters including the number of fretting cycles.
Further work deals with the prediction of this threshold using the Smith-Watson-Topper criterion.
New developments are presented, in particular a process volume of variable size is introduced in the computations of the fretting crack initiation.
The ocean wave distribution in a specific region of space and time is described by its sea state.
Knowledge about the sea states a ship encounters on a journey can be used to assess various parameters of risk and wear associated with the journey.
Two important characteristics of the sea state are the significant wave height and mean wave period.
We propose a joint spatial model of these two quantities on the north Atlantic ocean.
The model describes the distribution of the logarithm of the two quantities as a bivariate Gaussian random field.
This random field is modeled as a solution to a system of coupled stochastic partial differential equations.
The bivariate random field can model a wide variety of non-stationary anisotropy and allows for arbitrary, and different, differentiability for the two marginal fields.
The parameters of the model are estimated on data of the north Atlantic using a stepwise maximum likelihood method.
The fitted model is used to derive the distribution of accumulated fatigue damage for a ship sailing a transatlantic route.
Also, a method for estimating the risk of capsizing due to broaching-to, based on the joint distribution of the two sea state characteristics, is investigated.
The risks are calculated for a transatlantic route between America and Europe using both data and the fitted model.
The results show that the model compares well with observed data.
Also, it shows that the bivariate model is needed and cannot simply be approximated by a model of significant wave height alone.
Platooning represents an advanced driving technology designed to assist drivers in traffic convoys of varying lengths, enhancing road safety, reducing driver fatigue, and improving fuel efficiency.
Sophisticated automated driving assistance systems have facilitated this innovation.
Recent advancements in platooning emphasize cooperative mechanisms within both centralized and decentralized architectures enabled by vehicular communication technologies.
This study introduces a cooperative route planning optimization framework aimed at promoting the adoption of platooning through a centralized platoon formation strategy at the system level.
This approach is envisioned as a transitional phase from individual (ego) driving to fully collaborative driving.
Additionally, this research formulates and incorporates travel cost metrics related to fuel consumption, driver fatigue, and travel time, considering regulatory constraints on consecutive driving durations.
The performance of these cost metrics has been evaluated using Dijkstra's and A* shortest path algorithms within a network graph framework.
The results indicate that the proposed architecture achieves an average cost improvement of 14 % compared to individual route planning for long road trips.
As wind turbine power capacities continue to rise, taller and more flexible tower designs are needed for support.
These designs often have the tower's natural frequency in the turbine's operating regime, increasing the risk of resonance excitation and fatigue damage.
Advanced load-reducing control methods are needed to enable flexible tower designs that consider the complex dynamics of flexible turbine towers during partial-load operation.
This paper proposes a novel modulation-demodulation control (MDC) strategy for side-side tower load reduction driven by the varying speed of the turbine.
The MDC method demodulates the periodic content at the once-per-revolution (1P) frequency in the tower motion measurements into two orthogonal channels.
The proposed scheme extends the conventional tower controller by augmentation of the MDC contribution to the generator torque signal. A linear analysis framework into the multivariable system in the demodulated domain reveals varying degrees of coupling at different rotational speeds and a gain sign flip.
As a solution, a decoupling strategy has been developed, which simplifies the controller design process and allows for a straightforward (but highly effective) diagonal linear time-invariant controller design.
The high-fidelity OpenFAST wind turbine software evaluates the proposed controller scheme, demonstrating effective reduction of the 1P periodic loading and the tower's natural frequency excitation in the side-side tower motion.
Dehydration occurs when the body loses more water than it takes in.
Mild dehydration can lead to fatigue, cognitive impairments, and physical complications, while severe dehydration can cause life-threatening conditions like heat stroke, kidney damage, and hypovolemic shock.
Traditional bio chemistry-based clinical gold standard methods are expensive, time-consuming, and invasive.
Thus, there is a pressing need to design novel non-invasive methods that could do in-situ, early and accurate detection of dehydration, which will in turn allow timely intervention.
This article presents a methodological review of the literature on a range of innovative internet of medical things-based techniques for dehydration monitoring.
We begin by briefly describing the pathophysiology of the dehydration problem, its clinical significance, and current clinical gold-standard methods for assessing hydration level.
Subsequently, we critically examine a number of non-invasive and non-contact hydration assessment studies.
We also discuss multi-modal sensing methods and assess the impact of dehydration among specific population groups (e.g., elderly, infants, athletes) and on different organs.
We also provide a list of existing public and private datasets which make the backbone of machine learning-driven research on dehydration monitoring.
Finally, we provide our opinion statement on the challenges and future prospects of non-invasive and non-contact hydration monitoring.
Performing retinal vein cannulation (RVC) as a potential treatment for retinal vein occlusion (RVO) without the assistance of a surgical robotic system is very challenging to do safely.
The main limitation is the physiological hand tremor of surgeons.
Robot-assisted eye surgery technology may resolve the problems of hand tremors and fatigue and improve the safety and precision of RVC.
The Steady-Hand Eye Robot (SHER) is an admittance-based robotic system that can filter out hand tremors and enables ophthalmologists to manipulate a surgical instrument inside the eye cooperatively.
However, the admittance-based cooperative control mode does not safely minimize the contact force between the surgical instrument and the sclera to prevent tissue damage.
Additionally, features like haptic feedback or hand motion scaling, which can improve the safety and precision of surgery, require a teleoperation control framework.
This work presents a bimanual adaptive teleoperation (BMAT) control framework using SHER 2.0 and SHER 2.1 robotic systems.
We integrate them with an adaptive force control (AFC) algorithm to automatically minimize the tool-sclera interaction force.
The scleral forces are measured using two fiber Bragg grating (FBG)-based force-sensing tools.
We compare the performance of the BMAT mode with a bimanual adaptive cooperative (BMAC) mode in a vessel-following experiment under a surgical microscope.
Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed BMAT control framework in performing a safe bimanual telemanipulation of the eye without over-stretching it, even in the absence of registration between the two robots.
In recent years, interfacial fracture becomes one of the most important problems in the assessment of reliability of electronics packaging.
Especially, underfill resin is used with solder joints in flip chip packaging for preventing the thermal fatigue fracture in solder joints.
In general, the interfacial strength has been evaluated on the basis of interfacial fracture mechanics concept.
However, as the size of devices decrease, it is difficult to evaluate the interfacial strength quantitatively.
Most of researches in the interfacial fracture were conducted on the basis of the assumption of the perfectly bonding condition though the interface has the micro-scale structure and the bonding is often imperfect.
In this study, the mechanical model of the interfacial structure of resin in electronic components was proposed.
Bimaterial model with the imperfect bonding condition was examined by using a finite element analysis (FEA).
Stress field in the vicinity of interface depends on the interfacial structure with the imperfect bonding.
In the front of interfacial crack tip, the behavior of process zone is affected by interfacial structure.
However, the instability of fracture for macroscopic crack which means the fracture toughness is governed by the stress intensity factor based on the fracture mechanics concept.
We perform molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the effect of a glass preparation on its yielding transition under oscillatory shear.
We use swap Monte Carlo to investigate a broad range of glass stabilities from poorly annealed to highly stable systems.
We observe a qualitative change in the nature of yielding, which evolves from ductile to brittle as glass stability increases.
Our results disentangle the relative role of mechanical and thermal annealing on the mechanical properties of amorphous solids, which is relevant for various experimental situations from the rheology of soft materials to fatigue failure in metallic glasses.
Neuromorphic computing, inspired by biological intelligence, offers a pathway to revolutionize artificial intelligence (AI) by unifying memory and processing in an energy-efficient, sustainable framework for data-intensive tasks.
Ferroelectric (FE) materials have emerged as promising candidates for implementing artificial synapses, yet achieving low-voltage operation in CMOS back-end compatible devices remains a major challenge.
In this work, we demonstrate that proper tuning of ferro and antiferroelectric phases in HfO2-ZrO2(HZO) superlattice based capacitors can lead to imprint-free switching with record switchable polarization (2Pr) of 76 micro Coulomb cm-2 under an external field of only 2 MV cm-1.
The sizable remanent polarization of the superlattice HZO further enables linear potentiation and depression with an on to off ratio of 20 within a 3 MV cm-1 bias window.
Under pulsed operation, the devices show robust endurance, either maintaining polarization with less than 10 per cent degradation up to 10^8 cycles or surviving beyond 10^9 cycles with recoverable fatigue.
By elucidating two distinct fatigue mechanisms, this work highlights strategies for optimizing FE devices to meet the stringent demands of neuromorphic training applications.
Wind power is becoming an increasingly important source of renewable energy worldwide.
However, wind farm power control faces significant challenges due to the high system complexity inherent in these farms.
A novel communication-based multi-agent deep reinforcement learning large-scale wind farm multivariate control is proposed to handle this challenge and maximize power output.
A wind farm multivariate power model is proposed to study the influence of wind turbines (WTs) wake on power.
The multivariate model includes axial induction factor, yaw angle, and tilt angle controllable variables.
The hierarchical communication multi-agent proximal policy optimization (HCMAPPO) algorithm is proposed to coordinate the multivariate large-scale wind farm continuous controls.
The large-scale wind farm is divided into multiple wind turbine aggregators (WTAs), and neighboring WTAs can exchange information through hierarchical communication to maximize the wind farm power output.
Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed multivariate HCMAPPO can significantly increase wind farm power output compared to the traditional PID control, coordinated model-based predictive control, and multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient algorithm.
Particularly, the HCMAPPO algorithm can be trained with the environment based on the thirteen-turbine wind farm and effectively applied to larger wind farms.
At the same time, there is no significant increase in the fatigue damage of the wind turbine blade from the wake control as the wind farm scale increases.
The multivariate HCMAPPO control can realize the collective large-scale wind farm maximum power output.
Given the inherent non-deterministic nature of machine learning (ML) systems, their behavior in production environments can lead to unforeseen and potentially dangerous outcomes.
For a timely detection of unwanted behavior and to prevent organizations from financial and reputational damage, monitoring these systems is essential. This paper explores the strategies, challenges, and improvement opportunities for monitoring ML systems from the practitioners perspective.
We conducted a global survey of 91 ML practitioners to collect diverse insights into current monitoring practices for ML systems.
We aim to complement existing research through our qualitative and quantitative analyses, focusing on prevalent runtime issues, industrial monitoring and mitigation practices, key challenges, and desired enhancements in future monitoring tools.
Our findings reveal that practitioners frequently struggle with runtime issues related to declining model performance, exceeding latency, and security violations.
While most prefer automated monitoring for its increased efficiency, many still rely on manual approaches due to the complexity or lack of appropriate automation solutions.
Practitioners report that the initial setup and configuration of monitoring tools is often complicated and challenging, particularly when integrating with ML systems and setting alert thresholds.
Moreover, practitioners find that monitoring adds extra workload, strains resources, and causes alert fatigue.
The desired improvements from the practitioners perspective are: automated generation and deployment of monitors, improved support for performance and fairness monitoring, and recommendations for resolving runtime issues.
These insights offer valuable guidance for the future development of ML monitoring tools that are better aligned with practitioners needs.
Presidential Election unfolded within an information environment of unprecedented volatility, challenging citizens to navigate a torrent of rapidly evolving, often contradictory information while determining what to believe.
This study investigates the cognitive mechanisms underlying epistemic self-efficacy - the perceived ability to distinguish accurate news from misinformation - across different information channels during this high-stakes election cycle.
Drawing on data from the Pew Research Center's American Trends Panel (Wave 155, September 2024, N = 9,360), we test three hypotheses: (H1) whether reliance on social media predicts lower epistemic self-efficacy compared to mainstream news sources; (H2) whether perceived exposure to inaccurate information mediates this relationship; and (H3) whether information fatigue moderates the cognitive burden of verification across platforms.
Contrary to expectations rooted in algorithmic filtering theory, we find no significant differences in reported difficulty determining truth between social media and mainstream news users.
Instead, epistemic burden is driven by demographics (age, education) and universal information fatigue, suggesting a "leveling" of the information landscape during periods of extreme volatility.
This finding challenges platform-deterministic theories and suggests that interventions to support informed citizenship must address cognitive resilience and attention management rather than platform choice alone.
Soft stretchable materials are key for arising technologies such as stretchable electronics or batteries, smart textiles, biomedical devices, tissue engineering and soft robotics.
Recent attempts to design such materials, via e.g. micro-patterning of wavy fibres on soft substrates, polymer engineering at the molecular level or even kirigami techniques, provide appealing prospects but suffer drawbacks impacting the material viability: complexity of manufacturing, fatigue or failure upon cycling, restricted range of materials or biological incompatibility.
Here, we report a universal strategy to design highly stretchable, self-assembling and fatigue-resistant synthetic fabrics.
Our approach finds its inspiration in the mechanics of living animal cells that routinely encounter and cope with extreme deformations, e.g. with the engulfment of large intruders by macrophages, squeezing and stretching of immune cells in tiny capillaries or shrinking/swelling of neurons upon osmotic stimuli.
All these large instant deformations are actually mediated and buffered by membrane reserves available in the form of microvilli, membrane folds or endomembrane that can be recruited on demand.
We synthetically mimicked this behavior by creating nanofibrous liquid-infused tissues spontaneously forming surface reserves whose unfolding fuels any imposed shape change.
Our process, relying only on geometry, elasticity and capillarity, allows to endow virtually any material with high stretchability and reversibility, making it straightforward to implement additional mechanical, electrical or chemical functions.
We illustrate this with proof-of-concept activable capillary muscles, adaptable slippery liquid infused porous surfaces and stretchable basic printed electronic circuits.
This research aims to develop a method to reduce the time cost and complexity of balloon expandable stent simulations in cardiovascular stenting procedures for Peripheral Artery Disease.
The study uses stereoscopic images to construct a cardiovascular stent and validate its mechanical response through Finite Element testing.
A 3D model of the curved common femoral artery was constructed using Computed Tomography of a patient with Critical Limb Ischemia.
The fatigue life cycles of the stent were estimated considering sinusoidal cyclic loading.
The crimping process has a negligible influence on the mechanical response, with recoil and foreshortening percentages remaining static with increasing stent rings.
The numerical results indicate the biomechanical influence of stent placement in a realistic vessel and compare it with literature.
The propagation front of a crack generates large strain gradients and it is therefore a strong source of gradient-induced polarization (flexoelectricity).
Herein, we demonstrate that, in piezoelectric materials, a consequence of flexoelectricity is that crack propagation will be helped or hindered depending on whether it is parallel or antiparallel to the piezoelectric polar axis.
This means that the theory of fracture physics can no longer assume mechanical symmetry in polar materials.
The discovery of fracture asymmetry also has practical repercussions for the electromechanical fatigue of ferroelectrics and piezoelectric transducers, as well enabling a new degree of freedom for crack-based nanopatterning.
The possibility of significant increase of generated pulsed magnetic fields by the inductor system of a single-turn solenoid and magnetic flux concentrator without initialization of low-cycle fatigue mechanism is theoretically studied by varying the size of the inductor system, the material of the concentrator and the parameters of the discharge circuit.
The analysis is carried out on the basis of self-consistent solution of the equation, which describes dynamics of the discharge electric circuit, with equations describing spatial distributions of magnetic and temperature fields, mechanical stresses and deformations in the inductor and concentrator.
It is shown that for traditionally used steel concentrators by varying the electrical resistance of the circuit it is possible to increase the amplitude of generated pulsed magnetic fields without the threat of concentrator destruction by about 25~\%, from 32 to 40~T.
Impinging compressible jets may cause deafness and material fatigue due to immensely loud tonal noise.
It is generally accepted that a feedback mechanism similar to the screech feedback loop is responsible for impinging tones.
The close of the loop remained unclear.
One hypothesis hold up in the literature explains the emanated sound with the direct interaction of vortices and the wall.
Other explanations name the standoff shock oscillations as the origin of the tones.
Using direct numerical simulations (DNS) we were able to identify the source mechanism for under-expanded impinging jets with a nozzle pressure ratio (NPR) of 2.15 and a plate distance of 5 diameters.
We found two different types of interactions between vortices and shocks to be responsible for the generation of the impinging tones.
They are not related to screech.
While the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, its long-term effects persist through Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), commonly known as Long COVID.
There remains substantial uncertainty regarding both its duration and optimal management strategies.
PASC manifests as a diverse array of persistent or newly emerging symptoms--ranging from fatigue, dyspnea, and neurologic impairments (e.g., brain fog), to cardiovascular, pulmonary, and musculoskeletal abnormalities--that extend beyond the acute infection phase.
This heterogeneous presentation poses substantial challenges for clinical assessment, diagnosis, and treatment planning.
In this paper, we focus on imaging findings that may suggest fibrotic damage in the lungs, a critical manifestation characterized by scarring of lung tissue, which can potentially affect long-term respiratory function in patients with PASC.
This study introduces a novel multi-center chest CT analysis framework that combines deep learning and radiomics for fibrosis prediction.
Our approach leverages convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and interpretable feature extraction, achieving 82.2% accuracy and 85.5% AUC in classification tasks.
We demonstrate the effectiveness of Grad-CAM visualization and radiomics-based feature analysis in providing clinically relevant insights for PASC-related lung fibrosis prediction.
Our findings highlight the potential of deep learning-driven computational methods for early detection and risk assessment of PASC-related lung fibrosis--presented for the first time in the literature.
Interfaces have long been known to be the key to many mechanical and electric properties.
To nickel base superalloys which have perfect creep and fatigue properties and have been widely used as materials of turbine blades, interfaces determine the strengthening capacities in high temperature.
By means of high resolution scanning transmission electron microscopy (HRSTEM) and 3D atom probe (3DAP) tomography, Srinivasan et al. proposed a new point that in nickel base superalloys there exist two different interfacial widths across the γ/γ' interface, one corresponding to an order-disorder transition, and the other to the composition transition.
We argue about this conclusion in this comment.
In the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation and the ePrivacy Directive mandate informed consent for behavioural advertising and use of tracking technologies.
However, the ubiquity of consent banners and popups has led to widespread consent fatigue and questions regarding the effectiveness of these mechanisms in protecting users' data.
In contrast, users in California and other US jurisdictions can utilize Global Privacy Control (GPC), a browser-based privacy signal that automatically broadcasts a legally binding opt-out request to websites.
In this paper we explore whether, and to what extent, GPC can be adapted to the EU legal framework to mitigate consent fatigue and improve privacy protections for EU residents.
We analyse GPC as a technical specification standardized at the World Wide Web Consortium and examine its standing under current EU data protection law.
Generally, GPC can be mapped to the various legal bases for processing under the GDPR.
However, our evaluation also identifies friction between the GPC specification and EU data protection law as it stands.
These discrepancies are resolvable and present an opportunity for EU legislators and regulators to interpret GPC in alignment with EU data protection requirements, particularly, considering the European Commission's recent Digital Omnibus proposal. We conclude that while GPC is not a silver bullet, its adoption -- supported by clear authoritative guidance and specification updates -- can offer a pragmatic path toward more automated and effective data protection in the EU.
Design/methodology/approach We compared the awareness of 813 people in Wuhan city from January to March 2023 (Wuhan 2023) and 2,973 people in East and South China from February to May 2020 (China 2020) using responses to questionnaires conducted at Japanese local subsidiaries during each period.
Purpose As the coronavirus pandemic becomes less terrifying than before, there is a trend in countries around the world to abolish strict behavioral restrictions imposed by governments.
How should overseas subsidiaries change the way they manage human resources in response to these system changes?
To find an answer to this question, this paper examines what changes occurred in the mindset of employees working at local subsidiaries after the government's strict behavioral restrictions were introduced and lifted during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Findings The results showed that the analytical model based on conservation of resources (COR) theory can be applied to both China 2020 and Wuhan 2023.
However, the relationship between anxiety, fatigue, compliance, turnover intention, and psychological and social resources of employees working at local subsidiaries changed after the initiation and removal of government behavioral restrictions during the pandemic, indicating that managers need to adjust their human resource management practices in response to these changes.
Originality/value This is the first study that compares data after the start of government regulations and data after the regulations were lifted.
Therefore, this research proposes a new analytical framework that companies, especially foreign-affiliated companies that lack local information, can refer to respond appropriately to disasters, which expand damage while changing its nature and influence while anticipating changes in employee awareness.
Slender marine structures such as deep-water riser systems are continuously exposed to currents leading to vortex-induced vibrations (VIV) of the structure.
This may result in amplified drag loads and fast accumulation of fatigue damage.
Consequently, accurate prediction of VIV responses is of great importance for the safe design and operation of marine risers.
Model tests with elastic pipes have shown that VIV responses are influenced by many structural and hydrodynamic parameters, which have not been fully modelled in present frequency domain VIV prediction tools.
Traditionally, predictions have been computed using a single set of hydrodynamic parameters, often leading to inconsistent prediction accuracy when compared with observed field measurements and experimental data.
Hence, it is necessary to implement a high safety factor of 10 - 20 in the riser design, which increases development cost and adds extra constraints in the field operation.
One way to compensate for the simplifications in the mathematical prediction model is to apply adaptive parameters to describe different riser responses.
The objective of this work is to demonstrate a new method to improve the prediction consistency and accuracy by applying adaptive hydrodynamic parameters.
In the present work, a four-step approach has been proposed: First, the measured VIV response will be analysed to identify key parameters to represent the response characteristics.
These parameters will be grouped using data clustering algorithms.
Secondly, optimal hydrodynamic parameters will be identified for each data group by optimisation against measured data.
Thirdly, the VIV response using the obtained parameters will be calculated and the prediction accuracy evaluated.
The correct hydrodynamic parameters to be used for new cases can be obtained from the clustering.
This concept has been demonstrated with examples from experimental data.
Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) technologies are developing rapidly with increasing study of the design, fabrication and commercialization of microscale systems and devices.
Accurate knowledge on the mechanical behaviors of thin film materials used for MEMS is important for successful design and development of MEMS.
Here a novel electroplating spring-bridge micro-tensile specimen integrates pin-pin align holes, misalignment compensate spring, load sensor beam and freestanding thin film is demonstrated and fabricated.
The specimen is fit into a specially designed micro-mechanical apparatus to carry out a series of monotonic tensile testing on sub-micron freestanding thin films.
Certain thin films applicable as structure or motion gears in MEMS were tested including sputtered gold, copper and tantalum nitride thin films.
Metal specimens were fabricated by sputtering; for tantalum nitride film samples, nitrogen gas was introduced into the chamber during sputtering tantalum films on the silicon wafer.
The sample fabrication method involves three steps of lithography and two steps of electroplating copper to hold a dog bone freestanding thin film.
Using standard wet etching or lift off techniques, a series of microtensile specimens were patterned in metal thin films, holes, and seed layer for spring and frame structure on the underlying silicon oxide coated silicon substrate.
Two steps of electroplating processing to distinct spring and frame portion of the test chip.
Finally, chemical etched away the silicon oxide to separated electroplated specimen and silicon substrate.
The industrial application motivating this work is the fatigue computation of aircraft engines' high-pressure turbine blades.
The material model involves nonlinear elastoviscoplastic behavior laws, for which the parameters depend on the temperature.
For this application, the temperature loading is not accurately known and can reach values relatively close to the creep temperature: important nonlinear effects occur and the solution strongly depends on the used thermal loading.
We consider a nonlinear reduced order model able to compute, in the exploitation phase, the behavior of the blade for a new temperature field loading.
The sensitivity of the solution to the temperature makes {the classical unenriched proper orthogonal decomposition method} fail.
In this work, we propose a new error indicator, quantifying the error made by the reduced order model in computational complexity independent of the size of the high-fidelity reference model.
In our framework, when the {error indicator} becomes larger than a given tolerance, the reduced order model is updated using one time step solution of the high-fidelity reference model.
The approach is illustrated on a series of academic test cases and applied on a setting of industrial complexity involving 5 million degrees of freedom, where the whole procedure is computed in parallel with distributed memory.
This paper experimentally investigated the effects of silicone oil on the tribological behaviour of AZ31B/86CrMoV7 contact pair under a pin-on-disk configuration.
A commercial silicone oil was used as an oxidation inhibiter for the AZ31B at elevated temperatures to 300 oC.
The wear mechanism of the contact pair was explored by SEM morphologies of worn surfaces.
The analysis revealed that silicone oil can effectively minimize surface oxidation.
Compared with dry sliding, silicone oil can considerably lower down the friction coefficient and specific wear rate.
Under lubrication, the abrasive wear at a lower temperature can transit to the combined wear of abrasion, fatigue and adhesion when the temperature rises.
Improving the energy conversion efficiency of piezoelectric energy harvesters is of great importance, and one approach is to make more uniform use of the working material by ensuring a uniform strain state.
To achieve better performance, this paper presents a four-point bending piezoelectric energy harvester with extensive investigation and modeling to identify the influential parameters.
An electromechanical analytical model is presented and verified by experimental data.
The frequency-domain method extracts the solutions for a general time-variable force and impact.
Four-point bending is compared with the standard cantilever harvesters regarding voltage generation, mechanical strain, and figure of merit.
Strain contours are analyzed and interpreted for this innovative approach, and the power generation by the optimal resistance load is studied.
Dimensionless parameters are introduced and investigated to find the optimal operating conditions for the four-point bending harvester.
Finally, the four-point bending performance and the best figure of merit are discussed with a view to the long-term fatigue life of the harvester.
The results show that in the best four-point bending energy conversion conditions; the energy conversion coefficient is more than three times higher than that of typical cantilever energy harvesters.
The results also illustrate that the axial strain experienced in a standard cantilever harvester is more than three times higher than that of the four-point bending harvester, suggesting the latter device may have favorable fatigue performance.
Overall, the presented piezoelectric harvester has improved energy conversion efficiency and experiences a reduced and uniform surface strain, making it appropriate for high-efficiency energy harvesting systems.
Tendon-driven hand orthoses have advantages over exoskeletons with respect to wearability and safety because of their low-profile design and ability to fit a range of patients without requiring custom joint alignment.
However, no existing study on a wearable tendon-driven hand orthosis for stroke patients presents evidence that such devices can overcome spasticity given repeated use and fatigue, or discusses transmission efficiency.
In this study, we propose two designs that provide effective force transmission by increasing moment arms around finger joints.
We evaluate the designs with geometric models and experiment using a 3D-printed artificial finger to find force and joint angle characteristics of the suggested structures.
We also perform clinical tests with stroke patients to demonstrate the feasibility of the designs.
The testing supports the hypothesis that the proposed designs efficiently elicit extension of the digits in patients with spasticity as compared to existing baselines.
This paper presents an experimental study of the fretting crack nucleation threshold, expressed in terms of loading conditions, with a cylinder/plane contact.
The studied material is a damage tolerant aluminium alloy widely used in the aerospace application.
Since in industrial problems, the surface quality is often variable, the impact of a unidirectional roughness is investigated via varying the roughness of the counter body in the fretting experiments.
As expected, experimental results show a large effect of the contact roughness on the crack nucleation conditions.
Rationalisation of the crack nucleation boundary independently of the studied roughnesses was successfully obtained by introducing the concept of effective contact area.
This does show that the fretting crack nucleation of the studied material can be efficiently described by the local effective loadings inside the contact.
Analytical prediction of the crack nucleation is presented with the Smith-Watson-Topper (SWT) parameter and size effect is also studied and discussed.
Yaw control has proven to be promising in alleviating the wake effects that plague the efficiency of wind farms.
In this work, the actuator line modeling (ALM) method is adopted to simulate the flows over two tandem turbines distanced by $3 - 7$ rotor diameters, with the yaw angle of the upstream rotor varying from $γ_1=0^{\circ}$ to $50^{\circ}$.
The aim is to provide a comprehensive aerodynamic characterization of a simple wind farm under yaw misalignment.
With increasing yaw angle, the power generated by the downstream rotor increases, compensating the power loss in the upstream rotor, and resulting in higher total power of the two turbines than that without yaw control.
The maximum power output is achieved as the upstream wake of the yawed rotor is redirected away from the downstream rotor plane.
Behind the downstream rotor, the secondary steering phenomenon is observed, where the wake is also redirected from the centerline.
The use of the actuator line model also reveal unsteady aerodynamic characteristics that can not be captured by lower-fidelity models.
For the upstream rotor, the yaw misalignment results in time-varying change in the local angle of attack on the blade, giving rise to unsteady loading.
The downstream rotor is partially submerged in the deflected wake incurred by the yawed upstream rotor.
As the blade revolves into and out of the wake deficit, the blade experiences cyclic loading, leading to even stronger fluctuations in the aerodynamic loads than the upstream rotor.
These analysis provides a comprehensive understanding of the yaw control effects on the two tandem rotors from the perspectives of aerodynamic performance, wake profiles, and unsteady characteristics.
The insights gained from the study can aid the design of collective yaw control strategies of wind farms, and lay the foundation for assessing the fatigue damage associated with yaw misalignment.
Civil and maritime engineering systems, among others, from bridges to offshore platforms and wind turbines, must be efficiently managed as they are exposed to deterioration mechanisms throughout their operational life, such as fatigue or corrosion.
Identifying optimal inspection and maintenance policies demands the solution of a complex sequential decision-making problem under uncertainty, with the main objective of efficiently controlling the risk associated with structural failures.
Addressing this complexity, risk-based inspection planning methodologies, supported often by dynamic Bayesian networks, evaluate a set of pre-defined heuristic decision rules to reasonably simplify the decision problem.
However, the resulting policies may be compromised by the limited space considered in the definition of the decision rules.
Avoiding this limitation, Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) provide a principled mathematical methodology for stochastic optimal control under uncertain action outcomes and observations, in which the optimal actions are prescribed as a function of the entire, dynamically updated, state probability distribution.
In this paper, we combine dynamic Bayesian networks with POMDPs in a joint framework for optimal inspection and maintenance planning, and we provide the formulation for developing both infinite and finite horizon POMDPs in a structural reliability context.
The proposed methodology is implemented and tested for the case of a structural component subject to fatigue deterioration, demonstrating the capability of state-of-the-art point-based POMDP solvers for solving the underlying planning optimization problem.
Within the numerical experiments, POMDP and heuristic-based policies are thoroughly compared, and results showcase that POMDPs achieve substantially lower costs as compared to their counterparts, even for traditional problem settings.
Despite the widespread adoption of endoscopic devices for several cancer screening procedures, manual control of these devices still remains challenging for clinicians, leading to several critical issues such as increased workload, fatigue, and distractions.
To address these issues, in this paper, we introduce the design and development of an intuitive, modular, and easily installable mechatronic framework.
This framework includes (i) a novel nested collet-chuck gripping mechanism that can readily be integrated and assembled with the existing endoscopic devices and control their bending degrees-of-freedom (DoFs); (ii) a feeder mechanism that can control the insertion/retraction DoF of a colonoscope, and (iii) a complementary and intuitive user interface that enables simultaneous control of all DoFs during the procedure.
To analyze the design of the proposed mechanisms, we also introduce a mathematical modeling approach and a design space for optimal selection of the parameters involved in the design of gripping and feeder mechanisms.
Our simulation and experimental studies thoroughly demonstrate the performance of the proposed mathematical modeling and robotic framework.
Memory has always been a building block element for information technology.
Emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data, the internet of things, etc., require a novel kind of memory technology that can be energy efficient and have an exception data retention period.
Among several existing memory technologies, resistive random-access memory (RRAM) is an answer to the above question as it is necessary to possess the combination of speed of RAM and nonvolatility, thus proving to be one of the most promising candidates to replace flash memory in next-generation non-volatile RAM applications.
This review discusses the existing challenges and technological advancements made with RRAM, including switching mechanism, device structure, endurance, fatigue resistance, data retention period, and mechanism of resistive switching in inorganic oxides material used as a dielectric layer.
Finally, a summary and a perspective on future research are presented.
Pipelines tubes are part of vital mechanical systems largely used in petrochemical industries.
They serve to transport natural gases or liquids.
They are cylindrical tubes and are submitted to the risks of corrosion due to high PH concentrations of the transported liquids in addition to fatigue cracks due to the alternation of pressure-depression of gas along the time, initiating therefore in the tubes body micro-cracks that can propagate abruptly to lead to failure.
The development of the prognostic process for such systems increases largely their performance and their availability, as well decreases the global cost of their missions.
Therefore, this paper deals with a new prognostic approach to improve the performance of these pipelines.
Only the first mode of crack, that is, the opening mode, is considered.
In many instances, information on engineering systems can be obtained through measurements, monitoring or direct observations of system performances and can be used to update the system reliability estimate.
In structural reliability analysis, such information is expressed either by inequalities (e.g. for the observation that no defect is present) or by equalities (e.g. for quantitative measurements of system characteristics).
When information Z is of the equality type, the a-priori probability of Z is zero and most structural reliability methods (SRM) are not directly applicable to the computation of the updated reliability.
Hitherto, the computation of the reliability of engineering systems conditional on equality information was performed through first- and second order approximations.
In this paper, it is shown how equality information can be transformed into inequality information, which enables reliability updating by solving a standard structural system reliability problem.
This approach enables the use of any SRM, including those based on simulation, for reliability updating with equality information.
It is demonstrated on three numerical examples, including an application to fatigue reliability.
An acoustic black hole (ABH) consists of a tapered structure whose thickness follows a power-law profile.
When attached to a host structure, an ABH localizes and traps the vibrational energy, which can then be dissipated through, e.g., a damping layer.
However, effective vibration mitigation is known to occur only above a cut-on frequency which is inversely proportional to the length of the tapered structure.
In this context, the main thrust of this paper is to replace a mechanical ABH by a digital controller so as to create a so-called virtual acoustic black hole (VABH), thus, freeing the ABH from possible mechanical constraints (e.g., compactness, manufacturing and fatigue issues).
The proposed VABH is first detailed theoretically.
The salient features and performance of the VABH are then demonstrated both numerically and experimentally using a cantilever beam as a host structure.
Eventually, it is shown that the VABH significantly enlarges the applicability of the concept of an ABH.
In the competitive realm of sports, optimal performance necessitates rigorous management of nutrition and physical conditioning.
Specifically, in badminton, the agility and precision required make it an ideal candidate for motion analysis through video analytics.
This study leverages advanced neural network methodologies to dissect video footage of badminton matches, aiming to extract detailed insights into player kinetics and biomechanics.
Through the analysis of stroke mechanics, including hand-hip coordination, leg positioning, and the execution angles of strokes, the research aims to derive predictive models that can suggest improvements in stance, technique, and muscle orientation.
These recommendations are designed to mitigate erroneous techniques, reduce the risk of joint fatigue, and enhance overall performance.
Utilizing a vast array of data available online, this research correlates players' physical attributes with their in-game movements to identify muscle activation patterns during play.
The goal is to offer personalized training and nutrition strategies that align with the specific biomechanical demands of badminton, thereby facilitating targeted performance enhancements.
Crack detection, length estimation, and Remaining Useful Life (RUL) prediction are among the most studied topics in reliability engineering.
Several research efforts have studied physics of failure (PoF) of different materials, along with data-driven approaches as an alternative to the traditional PoF studies.
To bridge the gap between these two techniques, we propose a novel hybrid framework for fatigue crack length estimation and prediction.
Physics-based modeling is performed on the fracture mechanics degradation data by estimating parameters of the Paris Law, including the associated uncertainties.
Crack length estimations are inferred by feeding manually extracted features from ultrasonic signals to a Neural Network (NN).
The crack length prediction is then performed using the Particle Filter (PF) approach, which takes the Paris Law as a move function and uses the NN's output as observation to update the crack growth path.
This hybrid framework combines machine learning, physics-based modeling, and Bayesian updating with promising results.
Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tools often suffer from high false positive rates, leading to alert fatigue that consumes valuable auditing resources.
Recent efforts leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) as filters offer limited improvements; however, these methods treat LLMs as passive, stateless classifiers, which lack project-wide context and the ability to learn from analyses to discover unknown, similar vulnerabilities.
In this paper, we propose vEcho, a novel framework that transforms the LLM from a passive filter into a virtual security expert capable of learning, memory, and reasoning. vEcho equips its core reasoning engine with a robust developer tool suite for deep, context-aware verification.
More importantly, we introduce a novel Echoic Vulnerability Propagation (EVP) mechanism.
Driven by a Cognitive Memory Module that simulates human learning, EVP enables vEcho to learn from verified vulnerabilities and proactively infer unknown, analogous flaws, achieving a paradigm shift from passive verification to active discovery.
Extensive experiments on the CWE-Bench-Java dataset demonstrate vEcho's dual advantages over the state-of-the-art baseline, IRIS.
Specifically, vEcho achieves a 65% detection rate, marking a 41.8% relative improvement over IRIS's 45.83%.
Crucially, it simultaneously addresses alert fatigue by reducing the false positive rate to 59.78%, a 28.3% relative reduction from IRIS's 84.82%.
Furthermore, vEcho proactively identified 37 additional known vulnerabilities beyond the 120 documented in the dataset, and has discovered 51 novel 0-day vulnerabilities in open-source projects.
We study the asymptotic stability of a two-dimensional mean-field equation, which takes the form of a nonlocal transport equation and generalizes the time-elapsed neuron network model by the inclusion of a leaky memory variable.
This additional variable can represent a slow fatigue mechanism, like spike frequency adaptation or short-term synaptic depression.
Even though two-dimensional models are known to have emergent behaviors, like population bursts, which are not observed in standard one-dimensional models, we show that in the weak connectivity regime, two-dimensional models behave like one-dimensional models, i.e. they relax to a unique stationary state.
The proof is based on an application of Harris' ergodic theorem and a perturbation argument, adapted to the case of a multidimensional equation with delays.
In this paper we derive a statistical law of Life.
It governs the probability of death, or complementary of survival, of the living organisms.
We have deduced such a law coupling the widely used Weibull statistics, developed for describing the distribution of the strength of solids, with the universal model for ontogenetic growth only recently proposed by West and co-authors.
The main idea presented in this paper is that cracks can propagate in solids and cause their failure as sick cells in living organisms can cause their death.
Making a rough analogy, living organisms are found to behave as growing mechanical components under cyclic, i.e., fatigue, loadings and composed by a dynamic evolutionary material that, as an ineluctable fate, deteriorates.
The implications on biological scaling laws are discussed.
As an example of application, we apply such a statistical law to large data collections on human deaths due to cancer of various types recorded in Italy: a relevant agreement is observed.
Due to their superior fatigue strength, martensitic steels are the material of choice for high cyclic loading applications such as coil springs.
However, crack propagation is influenced by residual stresses and their interaction is poorly understood.
In fact, Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics predicts un-physical singularities in the strain around the crack tip.
In this study, we have combined synchrotron-based x-ray diffraction, x-ray fluorescence, and optical microscopy to map the factual strain fields around crack tips with micrometer spatial resolution.
X-ray fluorescence and optical images were co-registered to locate the crack in the x-ray diffraction maps.
Observed crystal recovery close to cracks confirmed that the diffraction signal originates at least in parts from the cracks.
The retrieved local strain field around the crack was further improved by averaging information over carefully selected diffraction peaks.
This procedure provided strain maps around crack tips with a spatial resolution of about 1 micro meter and enabled a prediction of further crack growth.
Runtime quantification of vehicle operational intensity is essential for predictive maintenance and condition monitoring in commercial and heavy-duty fleets.
Traditional metrics like mileage fail to capture mechanical burden, while unsupervised deep learning models detect statistical anomalies, typically transient surface shocks, but often conflate statistical stability with mechanical rest.
We identify this as a critical blind spot: high-load steady states, such as hill climbing with heavy payloads, appear statistically normal yet impose significant drivetrain fatigue.
To resolve this, we propose a Dual-Stream Architecture that fuses unsupervised learning for surface anomaly detection with macroscopic physics proxies for cumulative load estimation.
This approach leverages low-frequency sensor data to generate a multi-dimensional health vector, distinguishing between dynamic hazards and sustained mechanical effort.
Validated on a RISC-V embedded platform, the architecture demonstrates low computational overhead, enabling comprehensive, edge-based health monitoring on resource-constrained ECUs without the latency or bandwidth costs of cloud-based monitoring.
Adaptive online testing efficiently assesses examinee proficiency by dynamically adjusting the difficulty of test items based on their performance.
To achieve this, items are selected so that their difficulty closely matches the test taker's estimated ability at each stage of the test.
This alignment implies that the probability of a correct answer tends toward 0.5.
However, in practical settings, this probability may not converge to 0.5 unless the test comprises a sufficiently large number of items.
This could give the impression that the adaptive mechanism is not functioning properly.
Nevertheless, even when the number of items is small, such as 5 or 7, the adaptive nature of the system can still be observed by examining the relationship between item difficulty and the mean estimated ability of examinees for the corresponding item.
Considering that each item typically requires about 2-5 minutes to solve, this number of items appears to be a practical choice that avoids excessive fatigue for test-takers.
Increasing activity and the number of devices online are leading to increasing and more diverse cyber attacks.
This continuously evolving attack activity makes signature-based detection methods ineffective.
Once malware has infiltrated into a LAN, bypassing an external gateway or entering via an unsecured mobile device, it can potentially infect all nodes in the LAN as well as carry out nefarious activities such as stealing valuable data, leading to financial damage and loss of reputation.
Such infiltration could be viewed as an insider attack, increasing the need for LAN monitoring and security.
In this paper we aim to detect such inner-LAN activity by studying the variations in Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) calls within the LAN.
We find anomalous nodes by modelling inner-LAN traffic using hierarchical forecasting methods.
We substantially reduce the false positives ever present in anomaly detection, by using an extreme value theory based method.
We use a dataset from a real inner-LAN monitoring project, containing over 10M ARP calls from 362 nodes.
Furthermore, the small number of false positives generated using our methods, is a potential solution to the "alert fatigue" commonly reported by security experts.
The shaking force balancing is a well-known problem in the design of high-speed robotic systems because the variable dynamic loads cause noises, wear and fatigue of mechanical structures.
Different solutions, for full or partial shaking force balancing, via internal mass redistribution or by adding auxiliary links were developed.
The paper deals with the shaking force balancing of the Orthoglide.
The suggested solution based on the optimal acceleration control of the manipulator's common center of mass allows a significant reduction of the shaking force.
Compared with the balancing method via adding counterweights or auxiliary substructures, the proposed method can avoid some drawbacks: the increase of the total mass, the overall size and the complexity of the mechanism, which become especially challenging for special parallel manipulators.
Using the proposed motion control method, the maximal value of the total mass center acceleration is reduced, as a consequence, the shaking force of the manipulator decreases.
The efficiency of the suggested method via numerical simulations carried out with ADAMS is demonstrated.
Current arrow spine measurements rely on statically hanging a known weight at the shaft center and measuring the maximum deflection.
This archaic method of measuring arrow stiffness ignores dynamic nature of the arrow when released from the bow.
For this project, we built an apparatus to measure the dynamic characteristics of the arrow to better indicate arrow performance.
Using stochastic perturbations from a voice coil actuator and displacement measurements, we successfully estimated the natural frequency, damping parameter, and mechanical stiffness of carbon, wood, and aluminum arrows of varying spines.
Parameter estimates using a second order parameterized model showed agreement with the manufacturer rated spine values.
In addition, high cycle fatigue testing was completed on each arrow material but showed no significant changes in arrow parameters.
Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) attacks have caused significant damage worldwide.
Various Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) systems are deployed by enterprises to fight against potential threats.
However, EDR suffers from high false positives.
In order not to affect normal operations, analysts need to investigate and filter detection results before taking countermeasures, in which heavy manual labor and alarm fatigue cause analysts miss optimal response time, thereby leading to information leakage and destruction.
Therefore, we propose Endpoint Forecasting and Interpreting (EFI), a real-time attack forecast and interpretation system, which can automatically predict next move during post-exploitation and explain it in technique-level, then dispatch strategies to EDR for advance reinforcement.
First, we use Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) reports to extract the attack scene graph (ASG) that can be mapped to low-level system logs to strengthen attack samples.
Second, we build a serialized graph forecast model, which is combined with the attack provenance graph (APG) provided by EDR to generate an attack forecast graph (AFG) to predict the next move.
Finally, we utilize the attack template graph (ATG) and graph alignment plus algorithm for technique-level interpretation to automatically dispatch strategies for EDR to reinforce system in advance.
EFI can avoid the impact of existing EDR false positives, and can reduce the attack surface of system without affecting the normal operations.
We collect a total of 3,484 CTI reports, generate 1,429 ASGs, label 8,000 sentences, tag 10,451 entities, and construct 256 ATGs.
Experimental results on both DARPA Engagement and large scale CTI dataset show that the alignment score between the AFG predicted by EFI and the real attack graph is able to exceed 0.8, the forecast and interpretation precision of EFI can reach 91.8%.
This study investigates how the insertion of multimaterial circular regions embracing the tip of a finite V-notch can be used to reduce the Notch Stress Intensity Factors (NSIFs) in structures subjected to antiplane shear or torsion.
Towards this goal, this work presents a novel theoretical framework to calculate stress distributions and NSIFs in closed-form.
Thanks to the new solution, it is shown that by tuning multimaterial region radii and elastic properties it is possible to significantly reduce the NSIFs and stress concentrations at the material interfaces.
To investigate whether the proposed multimaterial system translates into increased structural capacity even in the presence of significant nonlinear deformations, computational simulations were conducted using nonlinear hyperelastic-damage and elasto-plastic-damage models.
The preliminary results show increases of structural capacity up to 46% and of nominal strain at failure of up to 86% at the expenses of only a 8% reduction in structural stiffness.
It is expected that a similar approach can be extended to other loading conditions (e.g. mode I and mode II, and fatigue) and that even larger gains can be obtained by performing thorough optimization studies.
We measured the complex Young's modulus of BaTiO3-d, BaxSr1-xTi3-d (BST) and Ba0.85Ca0.15Zr0.1Ti0.9O3-d (BCTZ) during heating and cooling runs at various O deficiencies and aging times.
The elastic energy loss has peaks due to the jumps of isolated O vacancies (VO) and reorientations of pairs of VO in the paraelectric phase, from which the respective rates and activation energies are measured.
These rates control the mechanisms of domain clamping, pinning, fatigue, and anything related to the VO mobility.
In the ferroelectric (FE) phase, the drop of the losses due to the domain wall motion upon introduction of VO monitors the degree of pinning.
In addition, large shifts of Tc are observed at the same value of d upon varying the permanence time in the FE state, up to DTc = 21K in BST, while no aging effect is found in BCTZ.
The phenomenology is explained by considering that Tc is depressed mainly by the mobile electrons doped by VO.
Each isolated VO dopes two electrons as itinerant Ti^3+ ions, but, when it forms a stable linear VO-Ti^2+-VO pair, the two electrons of the Ti^2+ are subtracted from the mobile ones, halving doping.
The rise of Tc during the initial aging is then explained in terms of the progressive aggregation of the VO.
Prolonging aging for years leads to a decrease of Tc, explained assuming that the most stable position of a VO is at 90^o domain walls, whose geometry is incompatible with the pairs.
Then, after enough time the initially aggregated VO within the domains dissociate to decorate the 90^o walls, increasing doping and lowering Tc.
The absence of such effects in BCTZ is due to larger activation energy for pair reorientation and pair binding energy.
Then, at room temperature practically all VO are paired and static over a time scale of hundreds of years, explaining the superior resistance of BCTZ to fatigue.
By collecting the data of eyeball movement of pilots, it is possible to monitor pilot's operation in the future flight in order to detect potential accidents.
In this paper, we designed a novel SVS system that is integrated with an eye tracking device, and is able to achieve the following functions:1) A novel method that is able to learn from the eyeball movements of pilots and preload or render the terrain data in various resolutions, in order to improve the quality of terrain display by comprehending the interested regions of the pilot. 2) A warning mechanism that may detect the risky operation via analyzing the aviation information from the SVS and the eyeball movement from the eye tracking device, in order to prevent the maloperations or human factor accidents.
The user study and experiments show that the proposed SVS-Eyetracking system works efficiently and is capable of avoiding potential risked caused by fatigue in the flight simulation.
The presence of surface defects (roughness, surface imperfections, profiles, etc.) in a contact inevitably leads to the modification of its local properties, such as the coefficient of friction.
In railway wheelsets, this surface condition is crucial as it dictates appropriate fatigue design for the final use.
However, these local phenomena are not well understood and require a real step back.
Therefore, the aim of this paper is to propose a multiscale numerical strategy to better understand these phenomena.
The multiscale strategy is divided into two steps.
Initially, an analysis by the Discrete Element Method (DEM) modelling the interaction of generated rough surfaces is carried out to determine the coefficient of friction.
In a second step, the results of DEM are introduced into a structural calculation where the enrichment of the coefficient of friction is done on each finite element contact.
Given the wide variety of potential surface defects (size, distribution, height, etc.), a large number of DEM simulations is performed.
A specially developed deep learning program is then used to account for these dispersions.
The application targeted in this paper is the fitting of a wheel on a railway axle.
To respond to the increasing need for bone repair strategies, various types of biomaterials have been developed.
Among those, calcium phosphate ceramics (CPCs) are promising since they possess a chemical composition similar to that of bones.
To be suitable for implants, CPCs need to fulfill a number of biological and mechanical requirements.
Fatigue resistance and toughness are two key mechanical properties that are still challenging to obtain in CPCs.
This paper thus reviews and discusses current progress in the processing of CPCs with bioinspired microstructures for load-bearing applications.
First, methods to obtain CPCs with bioinspired structure at individual lengthscales, namely nano-, micro-, and macroscale are discussed.
Then, approaches to attain synergetic contribution of all lengthscales through a complex and biomimetic hierarchical structure are reviewed.
The processing methods and their design capabilities are presented and the mechanical properties of the materials they can produce are analysed.
Their limitations and challenges are finally discussed to suggest new directions for the fabrication of biomimetic bone implants with satisfactory properties.
The paper could help biomedical researchers, materials scientists and engineers to join forces to create the next generation of bone implants.
Data-driven science and computation have advanced immensely to construct complex functional relationships using trainable parameters.
However, efficiently discovering interpretable and accurate closed-form expressions from complex dataset remains a challenge.
The article presents a novel approach called Explainable Hierarchical Deep Learning Neural Networks or Ex-HiDeNN that uses an accurate, frugal, fast, separable, and scalable neural architecture with symbolic regression to discover closed-form expressions from limited observation.
The article presents the two-step Ex-HiDeNN algorithm with a separability checker embedded in it.
The accuracy and efficiency of Ex-HiDeNN are tested on several benchmark problems, including discerning a dynamical system from data, and the outcomes are reported.
Ex-HiDeNN generally shows outstanding approximation capability in these benchmarks, producing orders of magnitude smaller errors compared to reference data and traditional symbolic regression.
Later, Ex-HiDeNN is applied to three engineering applications: a) discovering a closed-form fatigue equation, b) identification of hardness from micro-indentation test data, and c) discovering the expression for the yield surface with data.
In every case, Ex-HiDeNN outperformed the reference methods used in the literature.
The proposed method is built upon the foundation and published works of the authors on Hierarchical Deep Learning Neural Network (HiDeNN) and Convolutional HiDeNN.
The article also provides a clear idea about the current limitations and future extensions of Ex-HiDeNN.
One of the many secrets to the success and prevalence of insects is their versatile, robust, and complex exoskeleton morphology.
A fundamental challenge in insect-inspired robotics has been the fabrication of robotic exoskeletons that can match the complexity of exoskeleton structural mechanics.
Hybrid robots composed of rigid and soft elements have previously required access to expensive multi-material 3D printers, multi-step casting and machining processes, or limited material choice when using consumer-grade fabrication methods.
Here we introduce a new design and fabrication process to rapidly construct flexible exoskeleton-inspired robots called flexoskeleton printing.
We modify a consumer-grade fused deposition material (FDM) 3D printer to deposit filament directly onto a heated thermoplastic base layer which provides extremely strong bond strength between the deposited material and the inextensible, flexible base layer.
This process significantly improves the fatigue resistance of printed components and enables a new class of insect-inspired robot morphologies.
We demonstrate these capabilities through design and testing of a wide library of canonical flexoskeleton elements; ultimately leading to the integration of elements into a flexoskeleton walking legged robot.
The interaction between cracks, as well as their propagation, in single-crystal aluminum is investigated at the atomic scale using the molecular dynamics method and the modified embedded atom method.
The results demonstrated that the crack propagation in aluminum is a quite complex process, which is accompanied by micro-crack growth, merging, stress shielding, dislocation emission, and phase transformation of the crystal structure.
The main deformation mechanisms at the front of the fatigue crack are holes, slip bands, and cross-slip bands.
During crack propagation, there are interactions between cracks.
Such interactions inhibit the phase transition at the crack tip, and also affect the direction and speed of crack propagation.
The intensity of the interaction between two cracks decreases with the increase of the distance between them and increases with increasing crack size.
Moreover, while this interaction has no effect on the elastic modulus of the material, it affects its strength limit.
We introduce a novel Theory of Mind (ToM) framework inspired by dual-process theories from cognitive science, integrating a fast, habitual graph-based reasoning system (System 1), implemented via graph convolutional networks (GCNs), and a slower, context-sensitive meta-adaptive learning system (System 2), driven by meta-learning techniques.
Our model dynamically balances intuitive and deliberative reasoning through a learned context gate mechanism.
We validate our architecture on canonical false-belief tasks and systematically explore its capacity to replicate hallmark cognitive biases associated with dual-process theory, including anchoring, cognitive-load fatigue, framing effects, and priming effects.
Experimental results demonstrate that our dual-process approach closely mirrors human adaptive behavior, achieves robust generalization to unseen contexts, and elucidates cognitive mechanisms underlying reasoning biases.
This work bridges artificial intelligence and cognitive theory, paving the way for AI systems exhibiting nuanced, human-like social cognition and adaptive decision-making capabilities.
We study the dielectric response of ferroelectric (FE) thin films with "dead" dielectric layer at the interface with electrodes.
The domain structure inevitably forms in the FE film in presence of the dead layer.
As a result, the effective dielectric constant of the capacitor $ε_{eff}$ increases abruptly when the dead layer is thin and, consequently, the pattern of 180-degree domains becomes "soft".
We compare the exact results for this problem with the description in terms of a popular "capacitor" model, which is shown to give qualitatively incorrect results.
We relate the present results to fatigue observed in thin ferroelectric films.
Plenty of research on elastic interfaces has been done on systems where the interface is pushed with a constant force.
We studied the average velocity of an interface under a sinusoidal driving in the creep region, considering both short-range elastic systems, such as magnetic domain walls during a hysteresis loop, and long ranged systems such as fractures.
We obtained a modified version of the creep velocity with approximate power-law behaviour and a material dependent exponent for short ranged systems and simpler behaviour for long-range elasticity.
We discuss whether the model can be applied to fatigue fractures, or if extra physics is needed.
In traditional access control policies, every access granted and administrative account introduces an additional vulnerability, as a corruption of a high-privilege user can compromise several sensitive files.
Privocracy is an access control mechanism that minimizes the need to attribute high privileges by triggering a secure e-voting procedure to run commands that require using sensitive resources.
With Privocracy an organization can distribute trust in resource access, minimizing the system vulnerabilities from single points of failure, all while maintaining the high flexibility of discretionary access control policies.
The Privocracy voting mechanism achieves everlasting privacy, ensuring votes remain confidential regardless of an adversary's computational power, while addressing the dependability requirements of a practical and secure system.
The procedure incorporates useful features such as vote delegation to reduce voter fatigue, rapid voting rounds to enable quick action during emergencies, and selective vote auditing for application-level accountability.
Our experimental results demonstrate that Privocracy processes votes efficiently and can be deployed on commodity hardware.
Fatigue crack growth is usually a three-dimensional problem, but it is often simplified to two dimensions to reduce complexity.
However, this study investigates the relationships between microscopic effects such as crack kinking, shear lips, and plasticity that are present in reality.
Therefore, crack propagation tests were carried out on 2-mm-thick MT-160 specimens of AA2024-T3 sheet material in L-T and T-L orientation.
Using high-resolution digital image correlation (DIC), the plastic zone was identified and measured on the samples surface.
The fracture surfaces were then digitized and their 3D shape characterized.
Finite element simulations confirm the presence of a local mixed-mode I/II/III state along the crack front for a slant or double shear-fracture type.
A derived mapping function enables the determination of the fracture type from the surface plastic zone, along with the current crack tip loading during the test.
Finally, a transition of the fracture type also leads to a short-term delay in the crack propagation rate.
Based on this information crack propagation curves are computed with regards to the local 3D crack orientation.
With their remarkably improved text generation and prompting capabilities, large language models can adapt existing written information into forms that are easier to use and understand.
In our work, we focus on recipes as an example of complex, diverse, and widely used instructions.
We develop a prompt grounded in the original recipe and ingredients list that breaks recipes down into simpler steps.
We apply this prompt to recipes from various world cuisines, and experiment with several large language models (LLMs), finding best results with GPT-3.5.
We also contribute an Amazon Mechanical Turk task that is carefully designed to reduce fatigue while collecting human judgment of the quality of recipe revisions.
We find that annotators usually prefer the revision over the original, demonstrating a promising application of LLMs in serving as digital sous chefs for recipes and beyond.
We release our prompt, code, and MTurk template for public use.
The generalization properties of an attractive network of non monotonic neurons which infers concepts from samples are studied.
The macroscopic dynamics for the overlap between the state of the neurons with the concepts, well as the activity of the neurons, are obtained and searched for through its numerical behavior.
Complex behavior leading from fixed points to chaos through a cascade of bifurcation are found, when we increase the correlation between samples or decrease the activity of the samples and the load of concepts, or tune the threshold of fatigue of the neurons.
Both the information dimension and the Liapunov exponent are given, and a phase diagram is built.
We investigate the cyclic mechanical behavior in uniaxial tension of three different commercial thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers (TPU) often considered as a sustainable replacement for common filled elastomers.
All TPU have similar hard segment contents and linear moduli but sensibly different large strain properties as shown by X-Ray analysis.
Despite these differences, we found a stiffening effect after conditioning in step cyclic loading which greatly differs from the common softening (also referred as Mullins effect) observed in chemically crosslinked filled rubbers.
We propose that this self-reinforcement is related to the fragmentation of hard domains, naturally present in TPU, in smaller but more numerous sub-units that may act as new physical crosslinking points.
The proposed stiffening mechanism is not dissimilar to the strain-induced crystallization observed in stretched natural rubber, but it presents a persistent nature.
In particular, it may cause a local reinforcement where an inhomogeneous strain field is present, as is the case of a crack propagating in cyclic fatigue, providing a potential explanation for the well-known toughness and wear resistance of TPU
Peer review is fundamental to the integrity and advancement of scientific publication.
Traditional methods of peer review analyses often rely on exploration and statistics of existing peer review data, which do not adequately address the multivariate nature of the process, account for the latent variables, and are further constrained by privacy concerns due to the sensitive nature of the data.
We introduce AgentReview, the first large language model (LLM) based peer review simulation framework, which effectively disentangles the impacts of multiple latent factors and addresses the privacy issue.
Our study reveals significant insights, including a notable 37.1% variation in paper decisions due to reviewers' biases, supported by sociological theories such as the social influence theory, altruism fatigue, and authority bias.
We believe that this study could offer valuable insights to improve the design of peer review mechanisms.
Our code is available at https://github.com/Ahren09/AgentReview.
Backlash, also known as mechanical play, is a piecewise differentiable nonlinearity which exists in several actuated systems, comprising, e.g., rack-and-pinion drives, shaft couplings, toothed gears, and other machine elements.
Generally, the backlash is nested between the moving parts of a complex dynamic system, which handicaps its proper detection and identification.
A classical example is the two-mass system which can approximate numerous mechanisms connected by a shaft (or link) with relatively high stiffness and backlash in series.
Information about the presence and extent of the backlash is seldom exactly known and is rather conditional upon factors such as wear, fatigue and incipient failures in the components.
This paper proposes a novel backlash identification method using one-side sensing of a two-mass system.
The method is based on the delayed relay operator in feedback that allows stable and controllable limit cycles to be induced and operated within the (unknown) backlash gap.
The system model, with structural transformations required for the one-side backlash measurements, is given, along with the analysis of the delayed relay in velocity feedback.
Experimental evaluations are shown for a two-inertia motor bench that has coupling with backlash gap of about one degree.
Long COVID is a multisystem condition characterized by persistent symptoms such as fatigue, cognitive impairment, and systemic inflammation, following COVID-19 infection, yet its mechanisms remain poorly understood.
In this study, we applied quantum walk (QW), a computational approach leveraging quantum interference, to explore large-scale SARS-CoV-2-induced protein (SIP) networks.
Compared to the conventional random walk with restart (RWR) method, QW demonstrated superior capacity to traverse deeper regions of the network, uncovering proteins and pathways implicated in Long COVID.
Key findings include mitochondrial dysfunction, thromboinflammatory responses, and neuronal inflammation as central mechanisms.
QW uniquely identified the CDGSH iron-sulfur domain-containing protein family and VDAC1, a mitochondrial calcium transporter, as critical regulators of these processes.
VDAC1 emerged as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target, supported by FDA-approved compounds such as cannabidiol.
These findings highlight QW as a powerful tool for elucidating complex biological systems and identifying novel therapeutic targets for conditions like Long COVID.
This paper introduces Stress-Aware Learning, a resilient neural training paradigm in which deep neural networks dynamically adjust their optimization behavior - whether under stable training regimes or in settings with uncertain dynamics - based on the concept of Temporary (Elastic) and Permanent (Plastic) Deformation, inspired by structural fatigue in materials science.
To instantiate this concept, we propose Plastic Deformation Optimizer, a stress-aware mechanism that injects adaptive noise into model parameters whenever an internal stress signal - reflecting stagnation in training loss and accuracy - indicates persistent optimization difficulty.
This enables the model to escape sharp minima and converge toward flatter, more generalizable regions of the loss landscape.
Experiments across six architectures, four optimizers, and seven vision benchmarks demonstrate improved robustness and generalization with minimal computational overhead.
The code and 3D visuals will be available on GitHub: https://github.com/Stress-Aware-Learning/SAL.
Substituting load-bearing tissues requires hydrogels with rapid processability, excellent mechanical strength and fatigue resistance.
Conventional homogeneously polymerized hydrogels with short-chains/excessive branching exhibit low strength/toughness, being inadequate for artificial tissues.
Here we introduce the heterogeneous polymerization-accelerated reaction kinetics on the Ti3C2Tx MXene microreactor and sluggish kinetics beyond-to rapidly produce hydrogels within minutes.
This allows the hyperbranched domains embedded within a highly entangled matrix, leading to excellent strength (2.4 MPa)/toughness (75.2 kJ m-2) and low hysteresis (2.9%) in hydrogels superior to the rest ones.
The rapid liquid-to-solid transition triggered by MXene suggests the great possibility of 3D printed robust hydrogels toward artificial tissue.
Importantly, these printed hydrogels-based artificial ligaments have demonstrated impressive load-bearing capacity, wear resistance, and suturability compared to commercial analogs.
Thrust vector control (TVC) is a key mechanism for stabilizing rockets during flight, yet conventional implementations remain costly and technically inaccessible to students and hobbyists.
This paper presents the design, fabrication, and testing of a low-cost, 3D-printed, servo-driven two-dimensional gimbal developed for model rocket applications.
The gimbal underwent more than 60 CAD iterations, with servo selection guided by torque, response time, and stability requirements.
A high-speed camera and Fusion 360 parameter simulations were used to emulate dynamic instability, enabling evaluation of angular deflection, servo responsiveness, and structural durability.
The results demonstrated stable actuation within plus or minus 5 degrees, with response times on the average order of 44.5 ms, while limitations included servo fatigue and pin-joint stress under extended loading.
The project highlights the feasibility of student-accessible thrust vector control systems and their potential as a reproducible platform for STEM education and experimental aerospace research.
Plants respond to biotic and abiotic stresses through complex and dynamic mechanisms that integrate physical, chemical, and biological cues.
Here, we present a multi-physics platform designed to systematically investigate these responses across scales.
The platform combines a six-axis micromanipulator with interchangeable probes to deliver precise mechanical, electrostatic, optical, and chemical stimuli.
Using this system, we explore calcium signaling in Arabidopsis thaliana, thigmonastic motion in Mimosa pudica, and chemical exchange via microinjection in Rosmarinus officinalis L. and Ocimum basilicum.
Our findings highlight stimulus-specific and spatially dependent responses: mechanical and electrostatic stimuli elicit distinct calcium signaling patterns, while repeated electrostatic stimulation exhibited evidence of response fatigue.
Thigmonastic responses in Mimosa pudica depend on the location of perturbation, highlighting the intricate bi-directional calcium signaling.
Microinjection experiments successfully demonstrate targeted chemical perturbations in glandular trichomes, opening avenues for biochemical studies.
This open-source platform provides a versatile tool for dissecting plant stress responses, bridging the gap between fundamental research and applied technologies in agriculture and bioengineering.
By enabling precise, scalable, and reproducible studies of plant-environment interactions, this work offers new insights into the mechanisms underlying plant resilience and adaptability.
The rapid cycling synchrotron (RCS) of the China Spallation Neutron Source (CSNS) is a high intensity proton ring with beam power of 100 kW.
In order to control the residual activation to meet the requirements of hands-on maintenance, a two-stage collimation system has been designed for the RCS.
The collimation system consists of one primary collimator made of thin metal to scatter the beam and four secondary collimators as absorbers.
Thermal analysis is an important aspect in evaluating the reliability of the collimation system.
The calculation of the temperature distribution and thermal stress of the primary collimator with different materials is carried out by using ANSYS code.
In order to control the temperature rise and thermal stress of the primary collimator to a reasonable level, an air cooling structure is intended to be used.
The mechanical design of the cooling structure is presented, and the cooling effciency with different chin numbers and wind velocity is also analyzed.
Finally, the fatigue lifetime of the collimator under thermal shocks is estimated.
In virtual reality applications, users often navigate through virtual environments, but the issue of physiological responses, such as cybersickness, fatigue, and cognitive workload, can disrupt or even halt these activities.
Despite its impact, the underlying mechanisms of how the sensory system encodes information in VR remain unclear.
In this study, we compare three sensory encoding models, Bayesian Efficient Coding, Fitness Maximizing Coding, and the Linear Nonlinear Poisson model, regarding their ability to simulate human navigation behavior in VR.
By incorporating the factor of physiological responses into the models, we find that the Bayesian Efficient Coding model generally outperforms the others.
Furthermore, the Fitness Maximizing Code framework provides more accurate estimates when the error penalty is small.
Our results suggest that the Bayesian Efficient Coding framework offers superior predictions in most scenarios, providing a better understanding of human navigation behavior in VR environments.
Operators performing high-stakes, safety-critical tasks - such as air traffic controllers, surgeons, or mission control personnel - must maintain exceptional cognitive performance under variable and often stressful conditions.
This paper presents a phased methodological approach to building cognitive monitoring systems for such environments.
By integrating insights from human factors research, simulation-based training, sensor technologies, and fundamental psychological principles, the proposed framework supports real-time performance assessment with minimum intrusion.
The approach begins with simplified simulations and evolves towards operational contexts.
Key challenges addressed include variability in workload, the effects of fatigue and stress, thus the need for adaptive monitoring for early warning support mechanisms.
The methodology aims to improve situational awareness, reduce human error, and support decision-making without undermining operator autonomy.
Ultimately, the work contributes to the development of resilient and transparent systems in domains where human performance is critical to safety.
Current research in eSports lacks the tools for proper game practising and performance analytics.
The majority of prior work relied only on in-game data for advising the players on how to perform better.
However, in-game mechanics and trends are frequently changed by new patches limiting the lifespan of the models trained exclusively on the in-game logs.
In this article, we propose the methods based on the sensor data analysis for predicting whether a player will win the future encounter.
The sensor data were collected from 10 participants in 22 matches in League of Legends video game.
We have trained machine learning models including Transformer and Gated Recurrent Unit to predict whether the player wins the encounter taking place after some fixed time in the future.
For 10 seconds forecasting horizon Transformer neural network architecture achieves ROC AUC score 0.706.
This model is further developed into the detector capable of predicting that a player will lose the encounter occurring in 10 seconds in 88.3% of cases with 73.5% accuracy.
This might be used as a players' burnout or fatigue detector, advising players to retreat. We have also investigated which physiological features affect the chance to win or lose the next in-game encounter.
As Extended Reality (XR) systems increasingly map and understand the physical world, interacting with these blended representations remains challenging.
The current push for "natural" inputs has its trade-offs: touch is limited by human reach and fatigue, while gaze often lacks the precision for fine interaction.
To bridge this gap, we introduce World Mouse, a cross-reality cursor that reinterprets the familiar 2D desktop mouse for complex 3D scenes.
The system is driven by two core mechanisms: within-object interaction, which uses surface normals for precise cursor placement, and between-object navigation, which leverages interpolation to traverse empty space.
Unlike previous virtual-only approaches, World Mouse leverages semantic segmentation and mesh reconstruction to treat physical objects as interactive surfaces.
Through a series of prototypes, including object manipulation and screen-to-world transitions, we illustrate how cross-reality cursors may enable seamless interactions across real and virtual environments.
In a wind energy conversion system (WECS), changing the pitch angle of the wind turbine blades is a typical practice to regulate the electrical power generation in the full-load regime.
Due to the turbulent nature of the wind and the large variations of the mean wind speed during the day, the rotary elements of the WECS are subjected to significant mechanical stresses and fatigue, resulting in conceivably mechanical failures and higher maintenance costs.
Consequently, it is imperative to design a control system capable of handling continuous wind changes.
In this work, Linear Parameter Varying (LPV) H_inf controller is used to cope with wind variations and turbulent winds with a turbulence intensity greater than 10%.
The proposed controller is designed to regulate the rotational rotor speed and generator torque, thus, regulating the output power via pitch angle manipulations.
In addition, a PI-Fuzzy control system is designed to be compared with the proposed control system.
The closed-loop simulations of both controllers established the robustness and stability of the suggested LPV controller under large wind velocity variations, with minute power fluctuations compared to the PI-Fuzzy controller.
The results show that in the presence of turbulent wind speed variations, the proposed LPV controller achieves improved transient and steady-state performance along with reduced mechanical loads in the above-rated wind speed region.
The nascent field of neurogames relies on active Brain-Computer Interface input to drive its game mechanics.
Consequently, users expect their conscious will to be meaningfully reflected on the virtual environment they're engaging in.
Additionally, the videogame industry considers it paramount to provide gamers with seamless experiences to avoid disrupting their state of flow.
Thus, this paper suggests gamification as a strategy to camouflage the often fatiguing data acquisition process in Machine Learning from neurodata so that neurogamers can further immerse themselves in the virtual experience while Artificial Intelligence models benefit from data taken in reproducible contexts.
Machine learning (ML)-based intrusion detection systems (IDSs) play a critical role in discovering unknown threats in a large-scale cyberspace.
They have been adopted as a mainstream hunting method in many organizations, such as financial institutes, manufacturing companies and government agencies.
However, existing designs achieve a high threat detection performance at the cost of a large number of false alarms, leading to alert fatigue.
To tackle this issue, in this paper, we propose a neural-network-based defense mechanism named DarkHunter.
DarkHunter incorporates both supervised learning and unsupervised learning in the design.
It uses a deep ensemble network (trained through supervised learning) to detect anomalous network activities and exploits an unsupervised learning-based scheme to trim off mis-detection results.
For each detected threat, DarkHunter can trace to its source and present the threat in its original traffic format. Our evaluations, based on the UNSW-NB15 dataset, show that DarkHunter outperforms the existing ML-based IDSs and is able to achieve a high detection accuracy while keeping a low false positive rate.
Implantable hydrogels should ideally possess mechanical properties matched to the surrounding tissues to enable adequate mechanical function while regeneration occurs.
This can be challenging, especially when degradable systems with high water content and hydrolysable chemical bonds are required in anatomical sites under constant mechanical stimulation, e.g. a foot ulcer cavity.
In these circumstances, the design of hydrogel composites is a promising strategy to provide controlled structural features and macroscopic properties over time.
To explore this strategy, the synthesis of a new photocurable elastomeric polymer, poly(glycerol-co-sebacic acid-co-lactic acid-co-polyethylene glycol) acrylate (PGSLPA), is investigated, along with its processing into UV-cured hydrogels, electrospun nonwovens and fibre-reinforced variants, without the need for a high temperature curing step or use of hazardous solvents.
The mechanical properties of bioresorbable PGSLPA hydrogels were studied with and without electrospun nonwoven reinforcement and with varied layered configurations, aiming to determine the effects of microstructure on bulk compressive strength and elasticity.
The nonwoven reinforced PGSLPA hydrogels exhibited a 60 % increase in compressive strength and an 80 % increase in elastic moduli compared to fibre-free PGSLPA samples.
Mechanical properties of the fibre-reinforced hydrogels could also be modulated by altering the layering arrangement of the nonwoven and hydrogel phase.
The nanofibre reinforced PGSLPA hydrogels also exhibited good elastic recovery, as evidenced by hysteresis in compression fatigue stress-strain evaluations showing a return to original dimensions.
Interactive AI systems, such as recommendation engines and virtual assistants, commonly use static user profiles and predefined rules to personalize interactions.
However, these methods often fail to capture the dynamic nature of user preferences and context.
This study proposes a theoretical framework and practical implementation for integrating continuous feedback loops into personalization algorithms to enable real-time adaptation.
By continuously collecting and analyzing user feedback, the AI system can dynamically adjust its recommendations, responses, and interactions to better align with the user's current context and preferences.
We provide theoretical guarantees for the convergence and regret bounds of our adaptive personalization algorithm.
Our experimental evaluation across three domains-recommendation systems, virtual assistants, and adaptive learning platforms-demonstrates that dynamic personalization improves user satisfaction by 15-23% compared to static methods while maintaining computational efficiency.
We investigated the implementation challenges of continuous feedback mechanisms, evaluated their impact on user experience and satisfaction, and provided a comprehensive analysis of the trade-offs between personalization quality, computational overhead, and user fatigue.
Fatigue, sleepiness and disturbed sleep are important factors in health and safety in modern society and there is considerable interest in developing technologies for routine monitoring of associated physiological indicators.
Electrophysiology, the measurement of the electrical activity of biological origin, is a key technique for the measurement of physiological parameters in several applications, but it has been traditionally difficult to develop sensors for measurements outside the laboratory or clinic with the required quality and robustness.
In this paper we report the results from first human experiments using a new electrophysiology sensor called ENOBIO, using carbon nanotube arrays for penetration of the outer layers of the skin and improved electrical contact.
These tests, which have included traditional protocols for the analysis of the electrical activity of the brain--spontaneous EEG and ERP--indicate performance on a par with state of the art research-oriented wet electrodes, suggesting that the envisioned mechanism--skin penetration--is responsible.
No ill side-effects have been observed six months after the tests, and the subject did not report any pain or special sensations on application of the electrode.
In percutaneous intervention for treatment of coronary plaques, guidewire navigation is a primary procedure for stent delivery.
Steering a flexible guidewire within coronary arteries requires considerable training, and the non-linearity between the control operation and the movement of the guidewire makes precise manipulation difficult.
Here, we introduce a deep reinforcement learning(RL) framework for autonomous guidewire navigation in a robot-assisted coronary intervention.
Using Rainbow, a segment-wise learning approach is applied to determine how best to accelerate training using human demonstrations with deep Q-learning from demonstrations (DQfD), transfer learning, and weight initialization. `State' for RL is customized as a focus window near the guidewire tip, and subgoals are placed to mitigate a sparse reward problem.
The RL agent improves performance, eventually enabling the guidewire to reach all valid targets in `stable' phase.
Our framework opens anew direction in the automation of robot-assisted intervention, providing guidance on RL in physical spaces involving mechanical fatigue.
In the optimization of turbomachinery components, shape sensitivities for fluid dynamical objective functions have been used for a long time.
As peak stress is not a differential func- tional of the shape, such highly efficient procedures so far have been missing for objective functionals that stem from mechan- ical integrity.
This changes, if deterministic lifing criteria are replaced by probabilistic criteria, which have been introduced recently to the field of low cycle fatigue (LCF).
Here we present a finite element (FEA) based first discretize, then adjoin approach to the calculation of shape gradients (sen- sitivities) for the failure probability with regard to probabilistic LCF and apply it to simple and complex geometries, as e.g. a blisk geometry.
We review the computation of failure probabilities with a FEA postprocessor and sketch the computation of the relevant quantities for the adjoint method.
We demonstrate high accuracy and computational efficiency of the adjoint method compared to finite difference schemes.
We discuss implementation details for rotating components with cyclic boundary conditions.
Finally, we shortly comment on future development steps and on poten- tial applications in multi criteria optimization.
Polymer-based plastics exhibit time-dependent deformation under constant stress, known as creep, which can lead to rupture or static fatigue.
A common misconception is that materials under tolerable static loads remain unaffected over time.
Accurate long-term deformation predictions require experimental creep data, but conventional models based on simple rheological elements like springs and dampers often fall short, lacking the flexibility to capture the power-law behaviour intrinsic to creep processes.
The springpot, a fractional calculus-based element, has been used to provide a power-law relationship; however, its fixed-order nature limits its accuracy, particularly when the deformation rate evolves over time.
This article introduces a variable-order (VO) springpot model that dynamically adapts to the evolving viscoelastic properties of polymeric materials during creep, capturing changes between glassy, transition and rubbery phases.
Model parameters are calibrated using a robust procedure for model identification based on the cross-entropy (CE) method, resulting in physically consistent and accurate predictions.
This advanced modelling framework not only overcomes the limitations of the fixed-order models but also establishes a foundation for applying VO mechanics to other viscoelastic materials, providing a valuable tool for predicting long-term material performance in structural applications.
To date, only three objects have been firmly established as very high-energy gamma-ray sources in the Northern sky: the Crab nebula, which is a plerion, and the two blazars Markarian 501 and Markarian 421.
This paper reviews the most striking results obtained for these sources by the CAT atmospheric Cherenkov imaging telescope.
In this paper, we prove that a very general cubic threefold does not admit a universal codimension-two cycle and hence is stably irrational.
Recent results in QCD on multiplicity distributions are briefly reviewed.
QCD is able to predict very tiny features of multiplicity distributions which demonstrate that the negative binomial distribution (and, more generally, any infinitely divisible distribution) is inappropriate for precise description of experimental data.
New fits of high energy multiplicity distributions can be derived.
This research introduces a unified approach combining Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) with Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) to predict fatigue strength in welded transverse stiffener details.
It integrates expert-driven feature engineering with algorithmic feature creation to enhance accuracy and explainability.
Based on the extensive fatigue test database regression models - gradient boosting, random forests, and neural networks - were trained using AutoML under three feature schemes: domain-informed, algorithmic, and combined.
This allowed a systematic comparison of expert-based versus automated feature selection.
Ensemble methods (e.g. CatBoost, LightGBM) delivered top performance.
The domain-informed model $\mathcal M_2$ achieved the best balance: test RMSE $\approx$ 30.6 MPa and $R^2 \approx 0.780% over the full $Δσ_{c,50\%}$ range, and RMSE $\approx$ 13.4 MPa and $R^2 \approx 0.527% within the engineering-relevant 0 - 150 MPa domain.
The denser-feature model ($\mathcal M_3$) showed minor gains during training but poorer generalization, while the simpler base-feature model ($\mathcal M_1$) performed comparably, confirming the robustness of minimalist designs.
XAI methods (SHAP and feature importance) identified stress ratio $R$, stress range $Δσ_i$, yield strength $R_{eH}$, and post-weld treatment (TIG dressing vs. as-welded) as dominant predictors.
Secondary geometric factors - plate width, throat thickness, stiffener height - also significantly affected fatigue life.
This framework demonstrates that integrating AutoML with XAI yields accurate, interpretable, and robust fatigue strength models for welded steel structures.
It bridges data-driven modeling with engineering validation, enabling AI-assisted design and assessment.
Future work will explore probabilistic fatigue life modeling and integration into digital twin environments.
The spectra of baryons at LHC can explain the features of the proton spectra in cosmic rays (CR).
It seems important to study all baryon data that are available from collider experiments in wide range of energies.
Transverse momentum spectra of baryons from RHIC ($\sqrt(s)$=62 and 200 GeV) and from LHC ($\sqrt(s)$=0.9 and 7 TeV) have been considered.
It is seen that the slope of distributions at low $p_T$'s is changing with energy.
The QGSM fit of these spectra gives the average transverse momenta which behave as $s^{0.06}$ that is similar to the previously observed behavior of $Λ^0$ hyperon spectra.
The change in average transverse momenta that are slowly growing in VHE hadron interactions at CR detectors cannot cause the "knee" in measured cosmic ray proton spectra.
In addition, the available data on heavy quark hadron production from LHC-b at $\sqrt{s}$=7 TeV were also studied.
The preliminary dependence of hadron average transverse momenta on their masses at LHC energy is presented.
The possible source of cosmic ray antiparticle-to-particle ratios that are growing with energy was analyzed in the framework of QGSM, where the growing ratios are the result of local leading asymmetry between the production spectra of baryons and antibaryons in the kinematical region of proton target fragmentation.
In the laboratory system of cosmic ray measurements this spectrum asymmetry will be seen as growing ratio of secondary antiparticle-to-particle spectra until the certain energy of secondaries.
This conclusion makes the particle production at the sources of very high energy cosmic protons important, if the interactions with positive target matter would have place in proximity of these sources.
An efficient method for calculating inclusive conventional and prompt atmospheric leptons fluxes is presented.
The coupled cascade equations are solved numerically by formulating them as matrix equation.
The presented approach is very flexible and allows the use of different hadronic interaction models, realistic parametrizations of the primary cosmic-ray flux and the Earth's atmosphere, and a detailed treatment of particle interactions and decays.
The power of the developed method is illustrated by calculating lepton flux predictions for a number of different scenarios.
We analyze the dispersion relation for an anisotropic gravity-electromagnetic theory at very high energies.
In particular for photons of very high energy.
We start by introducing the anisotropic gravity-gauge vector field model.
It is invariant under spacelike diffeomorphisms, time parametrization, and U(1) gauge transformations.
It includes high-order spacelike derivatives as well as polynomial expressions of the Riemann and field strength tensor fields.
It is based on the Hořava-Lifshitz anisotropic proposal. We show its consistency, and the stability of the Minkowski ground state.
Finally, we determine the exact zone at which the physical degrees of freedom, i.e. the transverse-traceless tensorial degrees of freedom and the transverse vectorial degrees of freedom propagate according to a linear wave equation.
This is so, in spite of the fact that there exists in the zone a non-trivial Newtonian background of the same order.
The wave equation contains spatial derivatives up to the sixth order, in the lowest order it exactly matches the relativistic wave equation.
We then analyze the dispersion relation at very high energies in the context of recent experimental data.
The qualitative predictions of the proposed model, concerning the propagation of highly energetic photons, are different from the ones obtained from the modified dispersion relation of the LIV models.
Nowadays, there are many fatigue detection methods and the majority of them are tracking eye in real-time using one or two cameras to detect the physical responses in eyes.
It is indicated that the responses in eyes have high relativity with driver fatigue.
As part of this project, We will propose a fatigue detection system based on pose estimation.
Using pose estimation, We plan to mark the body joints in the upper body for shoulders and neck.
Then, we plan to compare the location of the joints of the current posture with the ideal posture.
GAW (Gamma Air Watch) is a pathfinder experiment in the TeV range to test the feasibility of a new generation of Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes (IACT).
It combines high flux sensitivity with large field-of-view (FoV=24deg x 24deg) using Fresnel lenses, stereoscopic observational approach and single-photon counting mode.
This particular counting mode, in comparison with the usual charge integration one, allows the triggering of events with a smaller number of collected Cherenkov photons keeping a good signal/background separation.
GAW is conceived as an array of three identical imaging telescopes with 2.13 m diameter placed at the vertices of an equilateral triangle of 80 m side.
The telescope will be built at the Calar Alto Observatory site (Sierra de Los Filabres - Almeria Spain, 2168 m a.s.l.) and is a joint effort of research institutes in Italy, Portugal and Spain.
The main characteristics of the experiment will be reported.
Physiological fatigue, a state of reduced cognitive and physical performance resulting from prolonged mental or physical exertion, poses significant challenges in various domains, including healthcare, aviation, transportation, and industrial sectors.
As the understanding of fatigue's impact on human performance grows, there is a growing interest in developing effective fatigue monitoring techniques.
Among these techniques, electroencephalography (EEG) has emerged as a promising tool for objectively assessing physiological fatigue due to its non-invasiveness, high temporal resolution, and sensitivity to neural activity.
This paper aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of the current state of the use of EEG for monitoring physiological fatigue.
Fatigue modeling is essential for motion synthesis tasks to model human motions under fatigued conditions and biomechanical engineering applications, such as investigating the variations in movement patterns and posture due to fatigue, defining injury risk mitigation and prevention strategies, formulating fatigue minimization schemes and creating improved ergonomic designs.
Nevertheless, employing data-driven methods for synthesizing the impact of fatigue on motion, receives little to no attention in the literature.
In this work, we present Fatigue-PINN, a deep learning framework based on Physics-Informed Neural Networks, for modeling fatigued human movements, while providing joint-specific fatigue configurations for adaptation and mitigation of motion artifacts on a joint level, resulting in more realistic animations.
To account for muscle fatigue, we simulate the fatigue-induced fluctuations in the maximum exerted joint torques by leveraging a PINN adaptation of the Three-Compartment Controller model to exploit physics-domain knowledge for improving accuracy.
This model also introduces parametric motion alignment with respect to joint-specific fatigue, hence avoiding sharp frame transitions.
Our results indicate that Fatigue-PINN accurately simulates the effects of externally perceived fatigue on open-type human movements being consistent with findings from real-world experimental fatigue studies.
Since fatigue is incorporated in torque space, Fatigue-PINN provides an end-to-end encoder-decoder-like architecture, to ensure transforming joint angles to joint torques and vice-versa, thus, being compatible with motion synthesis frameworks operating on joint angles.
Fatigue data arise in many research and applied areas and there have been statistical methods developed to model and analyze such data.
The distributions of fatigue life and fatigue strength are often of interest to engineers designing products that might fail due to fatigue from cyclic-stress loading.
Based on a specified statistical model and the maximum likelihood method, the cumulative distribution function (cdf) and quantile function (qf) can be estimated for the fatigue-life and fatigue-strength distributions.
Likelihood-based confidence bands then can be obtained for the cdf and qf.
This paper provides equivalence results for confidence bands for fatigue-life and fatigue-strength models.
These results are useful for data analysis and computing implementation.
We show (a) the equivalence of the confidence bands for the fatigue-life cdf and the fatigue-life qf, (b) the equivalence of confidence bands for the fatigue-strength cdf and the fatigue-strength qf, and (c) the equivalence of confidence bands for the fatigue-life qf and the fatigue-strength qf.
Then we illustrate the usefulness of those equivalence results with two examples using experimental fatigue data.
This paper describes method for detecting the early signs of fatigue in train drivers.
As soon as the train driver is falling in symptoms of fatigue immediate message will be transfer to the control room indicating the status of the drivers.
In addition of the advance technology of heart rate sensors is also added in the system for correct detection of status of driver if in either case driver is falling to fatigue due to any sever medical problems .The fatigue is detected in the system by the image processing method of comparing the image(frames) in the video and by using the human features we are able to estimate the indirect way of detecting fatigue.
The technique also focuses on modes of person when driving the train i.e. awake, drowsy state or sleepy and sleep state.
The system is very efficient to detect the fatigue and control the train also train can be controlled if it cross any such signal by which the train may collide on another train.
Cumulative local muscle fatigue may lead to potential musculoskeletal disorder (MSD) risks {\color{red}, and subject-specific muscle fatigability needs to be considered to reduce potential MSD risks.} This study was conducted to determine local muscle fatigue rate at shoulder joint level based on an exponential function derived from a muscle fatigue model.
Forty male subjects participated in a fatiguing operation under a static posture with a range of relative force levels (14% - 33%).
Remaining maximum muscle strengths were measured after different fatiguing sessions.
The time course of strength decline was fitted to the exponential function.
Subject-specific fatigue rates of shoulder joint moment strength were determined.
Good correspondence ($R^2>0.8$) was found in the regression of the majority (35 out of 40 subjects).
Substantial inter-individual variability in fatigue rate was found and discussed.
We study a behavioral SIR model with time-varying costs of distancing.
The two main causes of the variation in the cost of distancing we explore are distancing fatigue and public policies (lockdowns).
We show that for a second wave of an epidemic to arise, a steep increase in distancing cost is necessary.
Distancing fatigue cannot increase the distancing cost sufficiently fast to create a second wave.
However, public policies that discontinuously affect the distancing cost can create a second wave.
With that in mind, we characterize the largest change in the distancing cost (due to, for example, lifting a public policy) that will not cause a second wave.
Finally, we provide a numerical analysis of public policies under distancing fatigue and show that a strict lockdown at the beginning of an epidemic (as, for example, recently in China) can lead to unintended adverse consequences.
When the policy is lifted the disease spreads very fast due to the accumulated distancing fatigue of the individuals causing high prevalence levels.
Kassapoglou recently proposed a model for fatigue of composite materials which seems to suggest that fatigue SN curve can be entirely predicted on the basis of the statistical distribution of static strengths.
The original abstract writes "Expressions for the cycles to failure as a function of R ratio are derived.
These expressions do not require any curve fitting and do not involve any experimentally determined parameters.
The fatigue predictions do not require any fatigue tests for calibration".
These surprisingly ambitious claims and attractive results deserve careful scrutiny.
We contend that the results seem to be due to a number of approximations and incorrect derivations, and one particular misleading assumption, which make the model not conform to a fatigue testing in a given specimen with resulting SN curve distribution.
The quantitative agreement of some predictions (the scatter of distribution of fatigue lives being close to the mode value found in typical composites of aeronautical interest in the large Navy database) should not motivate any enthusiasm.
It is believed that a proper statistical treatment of the fatigue process should not make wear-out constants disappear, and hence the SN curves would depend on them, and not just on scatter of static data.
These serious concerns explain the large discrepancies found by 3 independent studies which tried to apply Kassapoglou's model to composite fatigue data, and to other well known results.
Recommender systems filter out information that meets user interests.
However, users may be tired of the recommendations that are too similar to the content they have been exposed to in a short historical period, which is the so-called user fatigue.
Despite the significance for a better user experience, user fatigue is seldom explored by existing recommenders.
In fact, there are three main challenges to be addressed for modeling user fatigue, including what features support it, how it influences user interests, and how its explicit signals are obtained.
In this paper, we propose to model user Fatigue in interest learning for sequential Recommendations (FRec).
To address the first challenge, based on a multi-interest framework, we connect the target item with historical items and construct an interest-aware similarity matrix as features to support fatigue modeling.
Regarding the second challenge, built upon feature cross, we propose a fatigue-enhanced multi-interest fusion to capture long-term interest.
In addition, we develop a fatigue-gated recurrent unit for short-term interest learning, with temporal fatigue representations as important inputs for constructing update and reset gates.
For the last challenge, we propose a novel sequence augmentation to obtain explicit fatigue signals for contrastive learning.
We conduct extensive experiments on real-world datasets, including two public datasets and one large-scale industrial dataset.
Experimental results show that FRec can improve AUC and GAUC up to 0.026 and 0.019 compared with state-of-the-art models, respectively.
Moreover, large-scale online experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of FRec for fatigue reduction.
Our codes are released at https://github.com/tsinghua-fib-lab/SIGIR24-FRec.
The increase of surface electromyography (sEMG) root-mean-square (RMS) is very frequently used to determine fatigue.
However, as RMS is also influenced by muscle force,its effective usage as indicator of fatigue is mainly limited to isometric, constant force tasks.This research develops a simple me-thodto preclude the effect of muscle force, hereby estimates the EMG amplitude response exclusively to fatigue with RMS.
Experiment was carried out on the biceps brachiis of 15 subjects (7males, 8 females) during sustained static maximum voluntary contractions (sMVC).Result shows that the sEMG RMS response to fatigue increasesto 21.27% while muscle force decreasing to 50%MVC, which implies that more and more extra effort is needed as muscle fatigue intensifies.
It would be promising to use the RMS response exclusively to fatigue as an indicator of muscle fatigue.
The fast repositioning system of the MAGIC Telescope has allowed during its first data cycle, between 2005 and the beginning of year 2006, observing nine different GRBs as possible sources of very high energy gammas.
These observations were triggered by alerts from Swift, HETE-II, and Integral; they started as fast as possible after the alerts and lasted for several minutes, with an energy threshold varying between 80 and 200 GeV, depending upon the zenith angle of the burst.
No evidence for gamma signals was found, and upper limits for the flux were derived for all events, using the standard analysis chain of MAGIC.
For the bursts with measured redshift, the upper limits are compatible with a power law extrapolation, when the intrinsic fluxes are evaluated taking into account the attenuation due to the scattering in the Metagalactic Radiation Field (MRF).
Physicians write notes about patients.
In doing so, they reveal much about themselves.
Using data from 129,228 emergency room visits, we train a model to identify notes written by fatigued physicians -- those who worked 5 or more of the prior 7 days.
In a hold-out set, the model accurately identifies notes written by these high-workload physicians, and also flags notes written in other high-fatigue settings: on overnight shifts, and after high patient volumes.
Model predictions also correlate with worse decision-making on at least one important metric: yield of testing for heart attack is 18% lower with each standard deviation increase in model-predicted fatigue.
Finally, the model indicates that notes written about Black and Hispanic patients have 12% and 21% higher predicted fatigue than Whites -- larger than overnight vs. daytime differences.
These results have an important implication for large language models (LLMs).
Our model indicates that fatigued doctors write more predictable notes.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, because word prediction is the core of how LLMs work, we find that LLM-written notes have 17% higher predicted fatigue than real physicians' notes.
This indicates that LLMs may introduce distortions in generated text that are not yet fully understood.
The LHC forward experiment (LHCf) is specifically designed for measurements of the very forward ($η$$>$8.4) production cross sections of neutral pions and neutrons at Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN.
LHCf started data taking in December 2009, when the LHC started to provide stable collisions of protons at $\sqrt{s}$=900\,GeV.
Since March 2010, LHC increased the collision energy up to $\sqrt{s}$=7\,TeV.
By the time of the symposium, LHCf collected 113k events of high energy showers (corresponding to $\sim$7M inelastic collisions) at $\sqrt{s}$=900\,GeV and $\sim$100M showers ($\sim$14 nb$^{-1}$ of integrated luminosity) at $\sqrt{s}$=7\,TeV.
Analysis results with the first limited sample of data demonstrate that LHCf will provide crucial data to improve the interaction models to understand very high-energy cosmic-ray air showers.
For the first time, we show that unipolar fatigue does occur in antiferroelectric capacitors, confirming the predictions of a previous work [Appl.
We also show that unipolar fatigue in antiferroelectrics is less severe than bipolar fatigue if the driving field is of the same magnitude.
This phenomenon has been attributed to the switching-induced charge injection, the main cause for polarization fatigue in ferroelectric and antiferroelectric materials.
Other evidences for polarization fatigue caused by the switching-induced charge injection from the nearby electrode rather than the charge injection during stable/quasi-stable leakage current stage are also discussed.
Researches show that fatigue driving is one of the important causes of road traffic accidents, so it is of great significance to study the driver fatigue recognition algorithm to improve road traffic safety.
In recent years, with the development of deep learning, the field of pattern recognition has made great development.
This paper designs a real-time fatigue state recognition algorithm based on spatio-temporal feature sequence, which can be mainly applied to the scene of fatigue driving recognition.
The algorithm is divided into three task networks: face detection network, facial landmark detection and head pose estimation network, fatigue recognition network.
Experiments show that the algorithm has the advantages of small volume, high speed and high accuracy.
To investigate the effects of muscle fatigue on force sense at the ankle joint, 10 young healthy adults were asked to perform an isometric contra-lateral force ankle-matching task in two experimental conditions of: (1) no-fatigue and (2) fatigue of the plantar-flexor muscles.
Measures of the overall accuracy and the variability of the force matching performances were determined using the absolute error and the variable error, respectively.
Results showed less accurate and less consistent force matching performances in the fatigue than no fatigue condition, as indicated by decreased absolute and variable errors, respectively.
The present findings evidence that muscle fatigue degrades force sense at the ankle joint.
Muscle fatigue is defined as the point at which the muscle is no longer able to sustain the required force or work output level.
The overexertion of muscle force and muscle fatigue can induce acute pain and chronic pain in human body.
When muscle fatigue is accumulated, the functional disability can be resulted as musculoskeletal disorders (MSD).
There are several posture exposure analysis methods useful for rating the MSD risks, but they are mainly based on static postures.
Even in some fatigue evaluation methods, muscle fatigue evaluation is only available for static postures, but not suitable for dynamic working process.
Meanwhile, some existing muscle fatigue models based on physiological models cannot be easily used in industrial ergonomic evaluations.
The external dynamic load is definitely the most important factor resulting muscle fatigue, thus we propose a new fatigue model under a framework for evaluating fatigue in dynamic working processes.
Under this framework, virtual reality system is taken to generate virtual working environment, which can be interacted with the work with haptic interfaces and optical motion capture system.
The motion information and load information are collected and further processed to evaluate the overall work load of the worker based on dynamic muscle fatigue models and other work evaluation criterions and to give new information to characterize the penibility of the task in design process.
Mental fatigue is a leading cause of motor vehicle accidents, medical errors, loss of workplace productivity, and student disengagements in e-learning environment.
Development of sensors and systems that can reliably track mental fatigue can prevent accidents, reduce errors, and help increase workplace productivity.
This review provides a critical summary of theoretical models of mental fatigue, a description of key enabling sensor technologies, and a systematic review of recent studies using biosensor-based systems for tracking mental fatigue in humans.
We conducted a systematic search and review of recent literature which focused on detection and tracking of mental fatigue in humans.
The search yielded 57 studies (N=1082), majority of which used electroencephalography (EEG) based sensors for tracking mental fatigue.
We found that EEG-based sensors can provide a moderate to good sensitivity for fatigue detection.
Notably, we found no incremental benefit of using high-density EEG sensors for application in mental fatigue detection.
Given the findings, we provide a critical discussion on the integration of wearable EEG and ambient sensors in the context of achieving real-world monitoring.
Future work required to advance and adapt the technologies toward widespread deployment of wearable sensors and systems for fatigue monitoring in semi-autonomous and autonomous industries is examined.
Fatigue life prediction is essential in both the design and operational phases of any aircraft, and in this sense safety in the aerospace industry requires early detection of fatigue cracks to prevent in-flight failures.
Robust and precise fatigue life predictors are thus essential to ensure safety.
Traditional engineering methods, while reliable, are time consuming and involve complex workflows, including steps such as conducting several Finite Element Method (FEM) simulations, deriving the expected loading spectrum, and applying cycle counting techniques like peak-valley or rainflow counting.
These steps often require collaboration between multiple teams and tools, added to the computational time and effort required to achieve fatigue life predictions.
Machine learning (ML) offers a promising complement to traditional fatigue life estimation methods, enabling faster iterations and generalization, providing quick estimates that guide decisions alongside conventional simulations.
In this paper, we present a ML-based pipeline that aims to estimate the fatigue life of different aircraft wing locations given the flight parameters of the different missions that the aircraft will be operating throughout its operational life.
We validate the pipeline in a realistic use case of fatigue life estimation, yielding accurate predictions alongside a thorough statistical validation and uncertainty quantification.
Our pipeline constitutes a complement to traditional methodologies by reducing the amount of costly simulations and, thereby, lowering the required computational and human resources.
By performing standard PUND (positive-up-negative-down), hysteresis-loop and dielectric measurements on the ferroelectric lead zirconate titanate (PZT) thin-film capacitors subject to bipolar/unipolar electrical cycling, we show that unipolar fatigue is evident though still less severe than bipolar fatigue conducted at the same voltage.
That has been attributed to polarization retention (backswitching) induced by the residual depolarization field between the monopolar pulses where the applied field is lower than the depolarization field, and explained using the LPD-SICI model (LPD-SICI stands for local phase decomposition caused by switching-induced charge injection).
The conventional view that switching does not occur during unipolar electrical cycling may need to be corrected.
PUND results recorded using the pulses of the same voltage as those for repetitive fatigue cycling are not reliable if the voltage is lower than 2Vc (Vc is the saturated coercive voltage).
Dielectric measurements or hysteresis-loop measurements at higher voltages (e.g. 4Vc) are more reliable ways to evaluate the degree of fatigue and could provide more valuable information in such situations.
Finally, dielectric results have been used to estimate the effective thickness di of the fatigue-induced degraded (pyrochlorelike) interfacial layer after bipolar/unipolar fatigue, which has not been done so far to our best knowledge.
The fact that di is still much less than the film thickness even after the most severe bipolar fatigue strongly suggests that polarization fatigue in ferroelectrics is an interface effect, not a bulk one.
In ergonomics and biomechanics, muscle fatigue models based on maximum endurance time (MET) models are often used to integrate fatigue effect into ergonomic and biomechanical application.
However, due to the empirical principle of those MET models, the disadvantages of this method are: 1) the MET models cannot reveal the muscle physiology background very well; 2) there is no general formation for those MET models to predict MET.
In this paper, a theoretical MET model is extended from a simple muscle fatigue model with consideration of the external load and maximum voluntary contraction in passive static exertion cases.
The universal availability of the extended MET model is analyzed in comparison to 24 existing empirical MET models.
Using mathematical regression method, 21 of the 24 MET models have intraclass correlations over 0.9, which means the extended MET model could replace the existing MET models in a general and computationally efficient way.
In addition, an important parameter, fatigability (or fatigue resistance) of different muscle groups, could be calculated via the mathematical regression approach.
Its mean value and its standard deviation are useful for predicting MET values of a given population during static operations.
The possible reasons influencing the fatigue resistance were classified and discussed, and it is still a very challenging work to find out the quantitative relationship between the fatigue resistance and the influencing factors.
Since a number of years the QGSJET model has been successfully used by different groups in the field of high energy cosmic rays.
Current work is devoted to the first general update of the model.
The key improvement is connected to an account for non-linear interaction effects which are of crucial importance for reliable model extrapolation into ultra-high energy domain.
The proposed formalism allows to obtain a consistent description of hadron-hadron cross sections and hadron structure functions and to treat non-linear effects explicitely in individual hadronic and nuclear collisions.
Other ameliorations concern the treatment of low mass diffraction, employment of realistic nuclear density profiles, and re-calibration of model parameters using a wider set of accelerator data.
As a room-temperature multiferroic, BiFeO3 has been intensively investigated for both magnetoelectric devices and non-volatile ferroelectric memory applications.
Both magnetoelectric and ferroelectric memory devices have the same control knob: polarization switching by an applied electric field.
Due to the rhombohedral symmetry of BiFeO3, there are four ferroelastic variances and three different polarization switching events: (1) 71° switching from r1- to r3+, (2) 109° switching from r1- to r2+ (or r4+), and (3) 180o switching from r1- to r1+ (the superscript + and - stand for up and down polarization, respectively).
Each switching path is coupled to a different reorientation of the BiFeO3 unit cell, and hence different coupling to the magnetic order as well as different magnitudes of switchable polarization.
A degradation of the ferroelectric properties of BiFeO3 will result in losing controllability of magnetic order switching in magnetoelectric devices and capacity for information storage in ferroelectric memory devices.
Especially, polarization fatigue will directly restrict the reliability of the actual devices.
Hence it is important to understand the intrinsic fatigue behavior of each polarization switching path in BiFeO3 thin films.
In this communication, we report polarization fatigue in BiFeO3 depending on switching path, and propose a fatigue model which will broaden our understanding of the fatigue phenomenon in low-symmetry materials.
This study proposes an exercise fatigue detection model based on real-time clinical data which includes time domain analysis, frequency domain analysis, detrended fluctuation analysis, approximate entropy, and sample entropy.
Furthermore, this study proposed a feature extraction method which is combined with an analytical hierarchy process to analyze and extract critical features.
Finally, machine learning algorithms were adopted to analyze the data of each feature for the detection of exercise fatigue.
The practical experimental results showed that the proposed exercise fatigue detection model and feature extraction method could precisely detect the level of exercise fatigue, and the accuracy of exercise fatigue detection could be improved up to 98.65%.
One of the most important scaling laws of time dependent fracture is Basquin's law of fatigue, namely, that the lifetime of the system increases as a power law with decreasing external load amplitude, $t_f\sim σ_0^{-α}$, where the exponent $α$ has a strong material dependence.
We show that in spite of the broad scatter of the Basquin exponent $α$, the fatigue fracture of heterogeneous materials exhibits intriguing universal features.
Based on stochastic fracture models we propose a generic scaling form for the macroscopic deformation and show that at the fatigue limit the system undergoes a continuous phase transition when changing the external load.
On the microlevel, the fatigue fracture proceeds in bursts characterized by universal power law distributions.
We demonstrate that in a range of systems, including deformation of asphalt, a realistic model of deformation, and a fiber bundle model, the system dependent details are contained in Basquin's exponent for time to failure, and once this is taken into account, remaining features of failure are universal.
Virtual character animation and movement synthesis have advanced rapidly during recent years, especially through a combination of extensive motion capture datasets and machine learning.
A remaining challenge is interactively simulating characters that fatigue when performing extended motions, which is indispensable for the realism of generated animations.
However, capturing such movements is problematic, as performing movements like backflips with fatigued variations up to exhaustion raises capture cost and risk of injury.
Surprisingly, little research has been done on faithful fatigue modeling.
To address this, we propose a deep reinforcement learning-based approach, which -- for the first time in literature -- generates control policies for full-body physically simulated agents aware of cumulative fatigue.
For this, we first leverage Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL) to learn an expert policy for the skill; Second, we learn a fatigue policy by limiting the generated constant torque bounds based on endurance time to non-linear, state- and time-dependent limits in the joint-actuation space using a Three-Compartment Controller (3CC) model.
Our results demonstrate that agents can adapt to different fatigue and rest rates interactively, and discover realistic recovery strategies without the need for any captured data of fatigued movement.
Very high energy (VHE) gamma-rays undergo pair production with low energy photons of background radiation fields.
This leads to an attenuation of the primary gamma-ray flux of extragalactic sources in the interaction with the extragalactic background light (EBL) which stretches from ultraviolet to far-infrared wavelengths.
In the presence of magnetic fields, gamma-rays could oscillate into hypothetical axion-like particles (ALPs).
This might lead to a reduced opacity of the Universe for VHE gamma-rays, as ALPs circumvent pair production.
Here, the impact of photon-ALP conversions on the spectrum of PKS1424+240 is demonstrated.
A lower limit on the redshift of this blazar was recently determined to be $z \geqslant 0.6035$, making it the farthest source ever observed at VHE energies.
Under the assumption of a specific magnetic field scenario and EBL model, photon-ALP couplings are derived that lead to an overall concave intrinsic blazar spectrum.
Road accidents have become the eight leading cause of death all over the world.
Lots of these accidents are due to a driver's inattention or lack of focus, due to fatigue.
Various factors cause driver's fatigue.
This paper considers all the measureable data that manifest driver's fatigue, namely those manifested in the vehicle measureable data while driving as well as the driver's physical and physiological data.
Each of the three main factors are further subdivided into smaller details.
For example, the vehicle's data is composed of the values obtained from the steering wheel's angle, yaw angle, the position on the lane, and the speed and acceleration of the vehicle while moving.
Ontological knowledge and rules for driver fatigue detection are to be integrated into an intelligent system so that on the first sign of dangerous level of fatigue is detected, a warning notification is sent to the driver.
This work is intended to contribute to safe road driving.
Human muscle fatigue is considered to be one of the main reasons for Musculoskeletal Disorder (MSD).
Recent models have been introduced to define muscle fatigue for static postures.
However, the main drawbacks of these models are that the dynamic effect of the human and the external load are not taken into account.
In this paper, each human joint is assumed to be controlled by two muscle groups to generate motions such as push/pull.
The joint torques are computed using Lagrange's formulation to evaluate the dynamic factors of the muscle fatigue model.
An experiment is defined to validate this assumption and the result for one person confirms its feasibility.
The evaluation of this model can predict the fatigue and MSD risk in industry production quickly.
Fatigue detection is of paramount importance in enhancing safety, productivity, and well-being across diverse domains, including transportation, healthcare, and industry.
This scientific paper presents a comprehensive investigation into the application of machine learning algorithms for the detection of physiological fatigue using Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals.
The primary objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of various algorithms in predicting an individual's level of fatigue based on EEG data.
In the current study, the fatigue life of QSTE340TM steel was modelled using a machine learning method, namely, a neural network.
This problem was solved by a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) neural network with a 3-75-1 architecture, which allows the prediction of the crack length based on the number of load cycles N, the stress ratio R, and the overload ratio Rol.
The proposed model showed high accuracy, with mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) ranging from 0.02% to 4.59% for different R and Rol.
The neural network effectively reveals the nonlinear relationships between input parameters and fatigue crack growth, providing reliable predictions for different loading conditions.
The Crab Nebula has long been considered a standard candle in high energy astrophysics, but in recent years this assumption has been strongly contradicted in keV-GeV wavebands.
In light of these developments, a search for variability is being performed on the nebula at Very High Energies (VHE; E>300 GeV), the preliminary results of which are presented here.
This initial study is based on 10 years (2001-2011) of archival data from the Whipple 10 m telescope.
The data set was searched for evidence of variability on the timescales of 1, 7, and 14 days.
To date, no significant flaring activity has been found, but simulations are in progress to determine the level of variability that would be detected.
Exercise-induced fatigue resulting from physical activity can be an early indicator of overtraining, illness, or other health issues.
In this article, we present an automated method for estimating exercise-induced fatigue levels through the use of thermal imaging and facial analysis techniques utilizing deep learning models.
Leveraging a novel dataset comprising over 400,000 thermal facial images of rested and fatigued users, our results suggest that exercise-induced fatigue levels could be predicted with only one static thermal frame with an average error smaller than 15\%.
The results emphasize the viability of using thermal imaging in conjunction with deep learning for reliable exercise-induced fatigue estimation.
Musculoskeletal disorder (MSD) is one of the major health problems in physical work especially in manual handling jobs.
In several literatures, muscle fatigue is considered to be closely related to MSD, especially for muscle related disorders.
In addition to many existing analysis techniques for muscle fatigue assessment and MSD risk analysis, in this paper, a new muscle fatigue model was proposed.
The new proposed model reflects the influence of external load, workload history, and individual differences.
This model is simple in mathematics and can be easily applied in realtime calculation, such as the application in realtime virtual work simulation and evaluation.
The new model was mathematically validated with 24 existing static models by comparing the calculated METs, and qualitatively or quantitatively validated with 3 existing dynamic models.
The proposed model shows high or moderate similarities in predicting the METs with all the 24 static models.
Validation results with the three dynamic models were also promising.
The main limitation of the model is that it still lacks experimental validation for more dynamic situations.
Relevance to industry Muscle fatigue is one of the main reasons causing MSDs in industry, especially for physical work.
Correct evaluation of muscle fatigue is necessary to determine work-rest regimens and reduce the risks of MSD.
Upscaling is central to offshore wind's cost-reduction strategy, with increasingly large rotors and nacelles requiring taller and stronger towers.
In Floating Offshore Wind Turbines (FOWTs), this trend amplifies fatigue loads due to coupled wind-wave dynamics and platform motion.
Conventional fatigue evaluation requires millions of high-fidelity simulations, creating prohibitive computational costs and slowing design innovation.
This paper presents FLOAT (Fatigue-aware Lightweight Optimization and Analysis for Towers), a framework that accelerates fatigue-aware tower design.
It integrates three key contributions: a lightweight fatigue estimation method that enables efficient optimization, a Monte Carlo-based probabilistic wind-wave sampling approach that reduces required simulations, and enhanced high-fidelity modeling through pitch/heave-platform calibration and High-Performance Computing execution.
The framework is applied to the IEA 22 MW FOWT tower, delivering, to the authors' knowledge, the first fatigue-oriented redesign of this benchmark model: FLOAT 22 MW FOWT tower.
Validation against 6,468 simulations shows that the optimized tower extends the estimated fatigue life from 9 months to 25 years while avoiding resonance, and that the lightweight fatigue estimator provides conservative predictions with a mean relative error of -8.6%.
Achieving this lifetime requires increased tower mass, yielding the lowest-mass fatigue-compliant design.
All results and the reported lifetime extension are obtained within the considered fatigue scope (DLC 1.2, aligned wind-wave conditions).
By reducing simulation requirements by orders of magnitude, FLOAT enables reliable and scalable tower design for next-generation FOWTs, bridging industrial needs and academic research while generating high-fidelity datasets that can support data-driven and AI-assisted design methodologies.
The heterogeneous microstructure in metallic components results in locally varying fatigue strength.
Metal fatigue strongly depends on size and shape of non-metallic inclusions and pores, commonly referred to as "defects".
Nodular cast iron (NCI) contains graphite inclusions (nodules) whose shape and frequency influence the fatigue strength.
Fatigue strength can be simulated by micromechanical finite element models.
The drawback of these models are the large computational costs.
Therefore, we employ a data-driven machine learning methodology.
More precisely, we utilize the simplified residual neural network (SimResNet) which was recently introduced (Herty et al., Kinetic Theory for Residual Neural Networks, 2020) to predict fatigue strength from metallographic data.
For the training, we use fatigue data which is simulated with a micromechanical model and the shakedown theorem.
The micromechanical models are derived directly from micrographs of nodular cast iron, respectively.
The application of SimResNet shows a good performance to predict fatigue strength by local microstructures of nodular cast iron.
We show several test cases.
The simplified character of SimResNet enables fast predictions of fatigue by microstructures, even in comparision to classical residual neural networks.
The detection of pilots' mental states is critical, as abnormal mental states have the potential to cause catastrophic accidents.
This study demonstrates the feasibility of using deep learning techniques to classify different fatigue levels, specifically a normal state, low fatigue, and high fatigue.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to classify fatigue levels in pilots.
Our approach employs the hybrid deep neural network comprising five convolutional blocks and one long short-term memory block to extract the significant features from electroencephalography signals.
Ten pilots participated in the experiment, which was conducted in a simulated flight environment.
Compared to four conventional models, our proposed model achieved a superior grand-average accuracy of 0.8801, outperforming other models by at least 0.0599 in classifying fatigue levels.
In addition to successfully classifying fatigue levels, our model provided valuable feedback to subjects.
Therefore, we anticipate that our study will make the significant contributions to the advancement of autonomous flight and driving technologies, leveraging artificial intelligence in the future.
This study introduces a novel muscle activation analysis based on surface electromyography (sEMG) signals to assess the muscle's after-fatigue condition.
Previous studies have mainly focused on the before-fatigue and fatigue conditions.
However, a comprehensive analysis of the after-fatigue condition has been overlooked.
The proposed method analyzes muscle fatigue indicators at various maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) levels to compare the before-fatigue, fatigue, and after-fatigue conditions using amplitude-based, spectral-based, and muscle fiber conduction velocity (CV) parameters.
In addition, the contraction time of each MVC level is also analyzed with the same indicators.
The results show that in the after-fatigue condition, the muscle activation changes significantly in the ways such as higher CV, power spectral density shifting to the right, and longer contraction time until exhaustion compared to the before-fatigue and fatigue conditions.
The results can provide a comprehensive and objective evaluation of muscle fatigue and recovery, which can be helpful in clinical diagnosis, rehabilitation, and sports performance.
The growth window of epitaxial Hf0.5Zr0.5O2 is established taking into account the main ferroelectric properties that films have to present simultaneously: high remanent polarization, low fatigue and long retention.
Defects in the film and imprint field depend on deposition temperature and oxygen pressure, with an impact on fatigue and retention, respectively.
Fatigue increases with substrate temperature and pressure, and retention is short if low temperature is used.
The growth window of epitaxial stabilization of ferroelectric Hf0.5Zr0.5O2 is narrower when all major ferroelectric properties (remanence, endurance and retention) are considered, but deposition temperature and pressure ranges are still sufficiently wide.
Quarantine measures are one of the first lines of defense against the spread of infectious diseases.
However, maintaining these measures over extended periods can be challenging due to a phenomenon known as quarantine fatigue.
In this paper, we investigate the impact of quarantine fatigue on the spread of infectious diseases by using an epidemic model on random networks with cliques.
In our model, susceptible individuals can be quarantined up to $n$ times, after which they stop complying with quarantine orders due to fatigue.
Our results show that quarantine fatigue may induce a regime in which increasing the probability of detecting and isolating infected individuals (along with their close contacts) could subsequently increase the expected number of cases at the end of an outbreak.
Moreover, we observe that quarantine fatigue can trigger an abrupt phase transition at the critical reproduction number $R_0=1$.
Finally, we explore a scenario where a non-negligible number of individuals are infected at the beginning of an epidemic, and our results show that, depending on the value of $n$, an abrupt transition between a controlled epidemic and a large epidemic event can occur for $R_0<1$.
Fatigue strength estimation is a costly manual material characterization process in which state-of-the-art approaches follow a standardized experiment and analysis procedure.
In this paper, we examine a modular, Machine Learning-based approach for fatigue strength estimation that is likely to reduce the number of experiments and, thus, the overall experimental costs.
Despite its high potential, deployment of a new approach in a real-life lab requires more than the theoretical definition and simulation.
Therefore, we study the robustness of the approach against misspecification of the prior and discretization of the specified loads.
We identify its applicability and its advantageous behavior over the state-of-the-art methods, potentially reducing the number of costly experiments.
Assessing human muscle fatigue is critical for optimizing performance and safety in physical human-robot interaction(pHRI).
This work presents a data-driven framework to estimate fatigue in dynamic, cyclic pHRI using arm-mounted surface electromyography(sEMG).
Subject-specific machine-learning regression models(Random Forest, XGBoost, and Linear Regression predict the fraction of cycles to fatigue(FCF) from three frequency-domain and one time-domain EMG features, and are benchmarked against a convolutional neural network(CNN) that ingests spectrograms of filtered EMG.
Framing fatigue estimation as regression (rather than classification) captures continuous progression toward fatigue, supporting earlier detection, timely intervention, and adaptive robot control.
In experiments with ten participants, a collaborative robot under admittance control guided repetitive lateral (left-right) end-effector motions until muscular fatigue.
Average FCF RMSE across participants was 20.8+/-4.3% for the CNN, 23.3+/-3.8% for Random Forest, 24.8+/-4.5% for XGBoost, and 26.9+/-6.1% for Linear Regression.
To probe cross-task generalization, one participant additionally performed unseen vertical (up-down) and circular repetitions; models trained only on lateral data were tested directly and largely retained accuracy, indicating robustness to changes in movement direction, arm kinematics, and muscle recruitment, while Linear Regression deteriorated.
Overall, the study shows that both feature-based ML and spectrogram-based DL can estimate remaining work capacity during repetitive pHRI, with the CNN delivering the lowest error and the tree-based models close behind.
The reported transfer to new motion patterns suggests potential for practical fatigue monitoring without retraining for every task, improving operator protection and enabling fatigue-aware shared autonomy, for safer fatigue-adaptive pHRI control.
Remote data access for data analysis in high performance computing is commonly done with specialized data access protocols and storage systems.
These protocols are highly optimized for high throughput on very large datasets, multi-streams, high availability, low latency and efficient parallel I/O.
The purpose of this paper is to describe how we have adapted a generic protocol, the Hyper Text Transport Protocol (HTTP) to make it a competitive alternative for high performance I/O and data analysis applications in a global computing grid: the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid.
In this work, we first analyze the design differences between the HTTP protocol and the most common high performance I/O protocols, pointing out the main performance weaknesses of HTTP.
Then, we describe in detail how we solved these issues.
Our solutions have been implemented in a toolkit called davix, available through several recent Linux distributions.
Finally, we describe the results of our benchmarks where we compare the performance of davix against a HPC specific protocol for a data analysis use case.
Pushing/Pulling tasks is an important part of work in many industries.
Usually, most researchers study the Push/Pull tasks by analyzing different posture conditions, force requirements, velocity factors, etc.
However few studies have reported the effects of fatigue.
Fatigue caused by physical loading is one of the main reasons responsible for MusculoSkeletal Disorders (MSD).
In this paper, muscle groups of articulation is considered and from joint level a new approach is proposed for muscle fatigue evaluation in the arms Push/Pull operations.
The objective of this work is to predict the muscle fatigue situation in the Push/Pull tasks in order to reduce the probability of MSD problems for workers.
A case study is presented to use this new approach for analyzing arm fatigue in Pushing/Pulling.
Observations of cosmic rays have been improving at all energies, with higher statistics and reduced systematics.
Fundamental questions remain regarding the origins of cosmic rays both within the Galaxy and in extragalactic sources, and new puzzles have arisen at ultra-high energies.
A key issue is determining the elemental composition based on air shower measurements.
Accelerator experiments at the LHC, with comprehensive measurements in the forward direction and high interaction energies, will greatly reduce the uncertainty in air shower simulations.
Ultra-high energy air showers may reveal properties of particle interactions at energies far beyond the reach of the LHC.
In late-2020, many countries around the world faced another surge in number of confirmed cases of COVID-19, including United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, United States, etc., which resulted in a large nationwide and even worldwide wave.
While there have been indications that precaution fatigue could be a key factor, no scientific evidence has been provided so far.
We used a stochastic metapopulation model with a hierarchical structure and fitted the model to the positive cases in the US from the start of outbreak to the end of 2020.
We incorporated non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) into this model by assuming that the precaution strength grows with positive cases and studied two types of pandemic fatigue.
We found that people in most states and in the whole US respond to the outbreak in a sublinear manner (with exponent k=0.5), while only three states (Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey) have linear reaction (k=1).
Case fatigue (decline in people's vigilance to positive cases) is responsible for 58% of cases, while precaution fatigue (decay of maximal fraction of vigilant group) accounts for 26% cases.
If there were no pandemic fatigue (no case fatigue and no precaution fatigue), total positive cases would have reduced by 68% on average.
Our study shows that pandemic fatigue is the major cause of the worsening situation of COVID-19 in United States.
Reduced vigilance is responsible for most positive cases, and higher mortality rate tends to push local people to react to the outbreak faster and maintain vigilant for longer time.
Prolonged exposure to virtual reality (VR) systems leads to visual fatigue, impairs user comfort, performance, and safety, particularly in high-stakes or long-duration applications.
Existing fatigue detection approaches rely on subjective questionnaires or intrusive physiological signals, such as EEG, heart rate, or eye-blink count, which limit their scalability and real-time applicability.
This paper introduces a deep learning-based study for detecting visual fatigue using continuous eye-gaze trajectories recorded in VR.
We use the GazeBaseVR dataset comprising binocular eye-tracking data from 407 participants across five immersive tasks, extract cyclopean eye-gaze angles, and evaluate six deep classifiers.
Our results demonstrate that EKYT achieves up to 94% accuracy, particularly in tasks demanding high visual attention, such as video viewing and text reading.
We further analyze gaze variance and subjective fatigue measures, indicating significant behavioral differences between fatigued and non-fatigued conditions.
These findings establish eye-gaze dynamics as a reliable and nonintrusive modality for continuous fatigue detection in immersive VR, offering practical implications for adaptive human-computer interactions.
Research indicates that monotonous automated driving increases the incidence of fatigued driving.
Although many prediction models based on advanced machine learning techniques were proposed to monitor driver fatigue, especially in manual driving, little is known about how these black-box machine learning models work.
In this paper, we proposed a combination of eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) and SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) to predict driver fatigue with explanations due to their efficiency and accuracy.
First, in order to obtain the ground truth of driver fatigue, PERCLOS (percentage of eyelid closure over the pupil over time) between 0 and 100 was used as the response variable.
Second, we built a driver fatigue regression model using both physiological and behavioral measures with XGBoost and it outperformed other selected machine learning models with 3.847 root-mean-squared error (RMSE), 1.768 mean absolute error (MAE) and 0.996 adjusted $R^2$.
Third, we employed SHAP to identify the most important predictor variables and uncovered the black-box XGBoost model by showing the main effects of most important predictor variables globally and explaining individual predictions locally.
Such an explainable driver fatigue prediction model offered insights into how to intervene in automated driving when necessary, such as during the takeover transition period from automated driving to manual driving.
We propose a procedure to estimate the fatigue loads on wind turbines, based in a recent framework used for reconstructing data series of stochastic properties measured at wind turbines.
Through a standard fatigue analysis, we show that it is possible to accurately estimate fatigue loads in any wind turbine within one wind park, using only the load measurements at one single turbine and the set of wind speed measurements.
Our framework consists of deriving a stochastic differential equation that describes the evolution of the torque at one wind turbine driven by the wind speed.
The stochastic equation is derived directly from the measurements and is afterwards used for predicting the fatigue loads at neighboring turbines.
Such a framework could be used to mitigate the financial efforts usually necessary for placing measurement devices in all wind turbines within one wind farm.
Finally, we also discuss the limitations and possible improvements of the proposed procedure.
The effect of polarization fatigue on the Rayleigh coefficients of ferroelectric lead zirconate titanate (PZT) thin film was systematically investigated.
It was found that electrical fatigue strongly affects the Rayleigh behaviour of the PZT film.
Both the reversible and irreversible Rayleigh coefficients decrease with increasing the number of switching cycles.
This phenomenon is attributed to the growth of an interfacial degraded layer between the electrode and the film during electrical cycling.
The methodology used in this work could serve as an alternative non-destructive way for evaluating the fatigue endurance and degradation in dielectric properties of ferroelectric thin-film devices during applications.
The prevailing belief propagated by NBA league observers is that the workload of the NBA season dramatically influences a player's performance$^{1,2,3,4,5}$.
We offer an analysis of cross game player fatigue that calls into question the empirical validity of these claims.
The analysis is split into three observational studies on prior NBA seasons.
First, to offer an analysis generalized to the whole league, we conduct an examination of relative workloads with in-game player tracking data as a proxy for exertion.
Second, to introduce a more granular perspective, we conduct a case study of the effectiveness of load management for Kawhi Leonard.
Third, to extend the analysis to a broader set of fatigue sources, we examine the impact of schedule features structurally imposed on teams.
All three analyses indicate the impact of cumulative player fatigue on game outcomes is minimal. As a result, we assert in the context of the measures already taken by teams to maintain the health of their players,$^6$ the impact of fatigue in the NBA is overstated.
Assessing the progression of muscle fatigue for daily exercises provides vital indicators for precise rehabilitation, personalized training dose, especially under the context of Metaverse.
Assessing fatigue of multi-muscle coordination-involved daily exercises requires the neuromuscular features that represent the fatigue-induced characteristics of spatiotemporal adaptions of multiple muscles and the estimator that captures the time-evolving progression of fatigue.
In this paper, we propose to depict fatigue by the features of muscle compensation and spinal module activation changes and estimate continuous fatigue by a physiological rationale model.
First, we extract muscle synergy fractionation and the variance of spinal module spikings as features inspired by the prior of fatigue-induced neuromuscular adaptations.
Second, we treat the features as observations and develop a Bayesian Gaussian process to capture the time-evolving progression.
Third, we solve the issue of lacking supervision information by mathematically formulating the time-evolving characteristics of fatigue as the loss function.
Finally, we adapt the metrics that follow the physiological principles of fatigue to quantitatively evaluate the performance.
Our extensive experiments present a 0.99 similarity between days, a over 0.7 similarity with other views of fatigue and a nearly 1 weak monotonicity, which outperform other methods.
This study would aim the objective assessment of muscle fatigue.
This paper examines the saturation of pressure signals during various handwriting tasks, including drawings, cursive text, capital words text, and signature, under different levels of fatigue.
Experimental results demonstrate a significant rise in the proportion of saturated samples following strenuous exercise in tasks performed without resting wrist.
The analysis of saturation highlights significant differences when comparing the results to the baseline situation and strenuous fatigue.
This report presents Waymo's proposal for a systematic fatigue risk management framework that addresses prevention, monitoring, and mitigation of fatigue-induced risks during on-road testing of ADS technology.
The proposed framework remains flexible to incorporate continuous improvements, and was informed by state of the art practices, research, learnings, and experience (both internal and external to Waymo).
Fatigue is a recognized contributory factor in a substantial fraction of on-road crashes involving human drivers, and mitigation of fatigue-induced risks is still an open concern researched world-wide.
While the proposed framework was specifically designed in relation to on-road testing of SAE Level 4 ADS technology, it has implications and applicability to lower levels of automation as well.
Ear EEG based driver fatigue monitoring systems have the potential to provide a seamless, efficient, and feasibly deployable alternative to existing scalp EEG based systems, which are often cumbersome and impractical. However, the feasibility of detecting the relevant delta, theta, alpha, and beta band EEG activity through the ear EEG is yet to be investigated.
Through measurements of scalp and ear EEG on ten subjects during a simulated, monotonous driving experiment, this study provides statistical analysis of characteristic ear EEG changes that are associated with the transition from alert to mentally fatigued states, and subsequent testing of a machine learning based automatic fatigue detection model.
Novel numerical evidence is provided to support the feasibility of detection of mental fatigue with ear EEG that is in agreement with widely reported scalp EEG findings.
This study paves the way for the development of ultra-wearable and readily deployable hearables based driver fatigue monitoring systems.
General conditions of stability of a very dense deuterium-tritium plasma ball are discussed.
It is shown that the decrease in the size of a plasma ball (increase in the plasma density) can be expected only when the temperature and the pressure in the plasma ball are kept high enough for all the particles, the nuclei and the delocalized electrons, to be described by classical statistics.
Fatigue is a broad, multifactorial concept that includes the subjective perception of reduced physical and mental energy levels.
It is also one of the key factors that strongly affect patients' health-related quality of life.
To date, most fatigue assessment methods were based on self-reporting, which may suffer from many factors such as recall bias.
To address this issue, in this work, we recorded multi-modal physiological data (including ECG, accelerometer, skin temperature and respiratory rate, as well as demographic information such as age, BMI) in free-living environments and developed automated fatigue assessment models.
Specifically, we extracted features from each modality and employed the random forest-based mixed-effects models, which can take advantage of the demographic information for improved performance.
We conducted experiments on our collected dataset, and very promising preliminary results were achieved.
Our results suggested ECG played an important role in the fatigue assessment tasks.
The current very high energy (VHE; E>100GeV) experiments have tremendously increased the number of detected extragalactic sources.
We present a synchrotron self-Compton modeling tour of the active galactic nuclei currently established as VHE emitters so far, and investigate possible correlations among the intrinsic and derived parameters.
The polarization fatigue in (Pb0.97La0.02)(Zr0.95Ti0.05)O3 (PLZT) antiferroelectric thin films deposited onto silicon wafers is studied by investigating the effect of the peak/average/effective cycling voltage through varying the waveform of the electrical excitation.
Interestingly, it is found that the fatigue endurance of the film is determined by the effective voltage of the external driving excitation rather than by the peak or average voltages.
Our results can be well explained in the framework of the local phase decomposition model and indicate that the effective voltage should be considered as the genuine driving voltage determining the polarization fatigue in PLZT antiferroelectric films.
The phase field method has gathered significant attention in the past decade due to its versatile applications in engineering contexts, including fatigue crack propagation modeling.
Particularly, the phase field cohesive zone method (PF-CZM) has emerged as a promising approach for modeling fracture behavior in quasi-brittle materials, such as concrete.
The present contribution expands the applicability of the PF-CZM to include the modeling of fatigue-induced crack propagation.
This study critically examines the validity of the extended PF-CZM approach by evaluating its performance across various fatigue behaviours, encompassing hysteretic behavior, S-N curves, fatigue creep curves, and the Paris law.
The experimental investigations and validation span a diverse spectrum of loading scenarios, encompassing pre- and post-peak cyclic loading, as well as low- and high-cyclic fatigue loading.
The validation process incorporates 2D and 3D boundary value problems, considering mode I and mixed-modes fatigue crack propagation.
The results obtained from this study show a wide range of validity, underscoring the remarkable potential of the proposed PF-CZM approach to accurately capture the propagation of fatigue cracks in concrete-like materials.
Furthermore, the paper outlines recommendations to improve the predictive capabilities of the model concerning key fatigue characteristics.
MAGIC is currently the largest single dish ground-based imaging air Cherenkov telescope in operation.
During its first cycle of observations more than 20 extragalactic objects have been observed, and very high energy gamma-ray signals have been detected in several of them.
The results of this observations are presented, together with a discussion of the spectral characteristics and the flux variability of the detected sources.
LLMs are increasingly being deployed as chatbots, but today's interfaces offer little to no friction: users interact through seamless conversations that conceal when the model is drifting, hallucinating or failing.
This lack of transparency fosters blind trust, even as models produce unstable or repetitive outputs.
We introduce an interactive demo that surfaces and mitigates cognitive fatigue, a failure mode where LLMs gradually lose coherence during auto-regressive generation.
Our system, Chatsparent, instruments real-time, token-level signals of fatigue, including attention-to-prompt decay, embedding drift, and entropy collapse, and visualizes them as a unified fatigue index.
When fatigue thresholds are crossed, the interface allows users to activate lightweight interventions such as attention resets, entropy-regularized decoding, and self-reflection checkpoints.
The demo streams live text and fatigue signals, allowing users to observe when fatigue arises, how it affects output quality, and how interventions restore stability.
By turning passive chatbot interaction into an interactive diagnostic experience, our system empowers users to better understand LLM behavior while improving reliability at inference time.
The extended high-energy gamma-ray (>100 MeV) emission occurring after the prompt gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) is usually characterized by a single power-law spectrum, which has been explained as the afterglow synchrotron radiation.
We report on the Fermi Large Area Telescope (LAT) observations of the >100 MeV emission from the very bright and nearby GRB 130427A, up to ~100 GeV.
By performing time-resolved spectral fits of GRB 130427A, we found a strong evidence of an extra hard spectral component above a few GeV that exists in the extended high-energy emission of this GRB.
This extra spectral component may represent the first clear evidence of the long sought-after afterglow inverse Compton emission.
Prospects for observations at the very high-energy gamma-rays, i.e., above 100 GeV, are described.
Natural gestures are crucial for mid-air interaction, but predicting and managing muscle fatigue is challenging.
Existing torque-based models are limited in their ability to model above-shoulder interactions and to account for fatigue recovery.
We introduce a new hybrid model, NICER, which combines a torque-based approach with a new term derived from the empirical measurement of muscle contraction and a recovery factor to account for decreasing fatigue during rest.
We evaluated NICER in a mid-air selection task using two interaction methods with different degrees of perceived fatigue.
Results show that NICER can accurately model above-shoulder interactions as well as reflect fatigue recovery during rest periods.
Moreover, both interaction methods show a stronger correlation with subjective fatigue measurement (r = 0.978/0.976) than a previous model, Cumulative Fatigue (r = 0.966/ 0.923), confirming that NICER is a powerful analytical tool to predict fatigue across a variety of gesture-based interactive applications.
The complexities of fatigue have drawn much attention from researchers across various disciplines.
Short-term fatigue may cause safety issue while driving; thus, dynamic systems were designed to track driver fatigue.
Long-term fatigue could lead to chronic syndromes, and eventually affect individuals physical and psychological health.
Traditional methodologies of evaluating fatigue not only require sophisticated equipment but also consume enormous time.
In this paper, we attempt to develop a novel and efficient method to predict individual's fatigue rate by scrutinizing human facial cues.
Our goal is to predict fatigue rate based on a selfie.
To associate the fatigue rate with user behaviors, we have collected nearly 1-million timeline posts from 10,480 users on Instagram.
We first detect all the faces and identify their demographics using automatic algorithms.
Next, we investigate the fatigue distribution by weekday over different age, gender, and ethnic groups.
This work represents a promising way to assess sleep-deprived fatigue, and our study provides a viable and efficient computational framework for user fatigue modeling in large-scale via social media.
Asphalt concrete's (AC) durability and maintenance demands are strongly influenced by its fatigue life.
Traditional methods for determining this characteristic are both resource-intensive and time-consuming.
This study employs artificial neural networks (ANNs) to predict AC fatigue life, focusing on the impact of strain level, binder content, and air-void content.
Leveraging a substantial dataset, we tailored our models to effectively handle the wide range of fatigue life data, typically represented on a logarithmic scale.
The mean square logarithmic error was utilized as the loss function to enhance prediction accuracy across all levels of fatigue life.
Through comparative analysis of various hyperparameters, we developed a machine-learning model that captures the complex relationships within the data.
Our findings demonstrate that higher binder content significantly enhances fatigue life, while the influence of air-void content is more variable, depending on binder levels.
Most importantly, this study provides insights into the intricacies of using ANNs for modeling, showcasing their potential utility with larger datasets.
The codes developed and the data used in this study are provided as open source on a GitHub repository, with a link included in the paper for full access.
We investigate the fatigue and refreshment by dc-electrical field of the electrical properties of Pt/Pb(Ti,Zr)O$_3$/Pt ferroelectric capacitors.
We find an asymmetry in the refreshment, that is, the fatigued state can be refreshed by application of negative high dc-voltage to the top electrode, but no refreshment is measured by positive dc-voltage application.
We also find that the fatigue can be prevented by driving the capacitor asymmetrically.
Fatigue is a loss in cognitive or physical performance due to physiological factors such as insufficient sleep, long work hours, stress, and physical exertion.
It adversely affects the human body and can slow reaction times, reduce attention, and limit short-term memory.
Hence, there is a need to monitor a person's state to avoid extreme fatigue conditions that can result in physiological complications.
However, tools to understand and assess fatigue are minimal. This paper primarily focuses on building an experimental setup that induces cognitive fatigue (CF) and physical fatigue (PF) through multiple cognitive and physical tasks while simultaneously recording physiological data.
First, we built a prototype sensor suit embedded with numerous physiological sensors for easy use during data collection.
Second, participants' self-reported visual analog scores (VAS) are reported after each task to confirm fatigue induction.
Finally, an evaluation system is built that utilizes machine learning (ML) models to detect states of CF and PF from sensor data, thus providing an objective measure.
Our methods beat state-of-the-art approaches, where Random Forest performs the best in detecting PF with an accuracy of 80.5% while correctly predicting the true PF condition 88% of the time.
On the other hand, the long short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network produces the best results in detecting CF in the subjects (with 84.1% accuracy, 0.9 recall).
In recent years, road accidents have increased significantly.
One of the major reasons for these accidents, as reported is driver fatigue.
Due to continuous and longtime driving, the driver gets exhausted and drowsy which may lead to an accident.
Therefore, there is a need for a system to measure the fatigue level of driver and alert him when he/she feels drowsy to avoid accidents.
Thus, we propose a system which comprises of a camera installed on the car dashboard.
The camera detect the driver's face and observe the alteration in its facial features and uses these features to observe the fatigue level.
Facial features include eyes and mouth.
Principle Component Analysis is thus implemented to reduce the features while minimizing the amount of information lost.
The parameters thus obtained are processed through Support Vector Classifier for classifying the fatigue level.
After that classifier output is sent to the alert unit.
Computerized cognitive training (CCT) is a scalable, well-tolerated intervention that has promise for slowing cognitive decline.
Outcomes from CCT are limited by a lack of effective engagement, which is decreased by factors such as mental fatigue, particularly in older adults at risk for dementia.
There is a need for scalable, automated measures that can monitor mental fatigue during CCT.
Here, we develop and validate a novel Recurrent Video Transformer (RVT) method for monitoring real-time mental fatigue in older adults with mild cognitive impairment from video-recorded facial gestures during CCT.
The RVT model achieved the highest balanced accuracy(78%) and precision (0.82) compared to the prior state-of-the-art models for binary and multi-class classification of mental fatigue and was additionally validated via significant association (p=0.023) with CCT reaction time.
By leveraging dynamic temporal information, the RVT model demonstrates the potential to accurately measure real-time mental fatigue, laying the foundation for future personalized CCT that increase effective engagement.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a neuroimaging technique that records neural activations in the brain by capturing the blood oxygen level in different regions based on the task performed by a subject.
Given fMRI data, the problem of predicting the state of cognitive fatigue in a person has not been investigated to its full extent.
This paper proposes tackling this issue as a multi-class classification problem by dividing the state of cognitive fatigue into six different levels, ranging from no-fatigue to extreme fatigue conditions.
We built a spatio-temporal model that uses convolutional neural networks (CNN) for spatial feature extraction and a long short-term memory (LSTM) network for temporal modeling of 4D fMRI scans.
We also applied a self-supervised method called MoCo (Momentum Contrast) to pre-train our model on a public dataset BOLD5000 and fine-tuned it on our labeled dataset to predict cognitive fatigue.
Our novel dataset contains fMRI scans from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) patients and healthy controls (HCs) while performing a series of N-back cognitive tasks.
This method establishes a state-of-the-art technique to analyze cognitive fatigue from fMRI data and beats previous approaches to solve this problem.
Prolonged mid-air interaction in virtual reality (VR) causes arm fatigue and discomfort, negatively affecting user experience.
Incorporating ergonomic considerations into VR user interface (UI) design typically requires extensive human-in-the-loop evaluation.
Although biomechanical models have been used to simulate human behavior in HCI tasks, their application as surrogate users for ergonomic VR UI design remains underexplored.
We propose a hierarchical reinforcement learning framework that leverages biomechanical user models to evaluate and optimize VR interfaces for mid-air interaction.
A motion agent is trained to perform button-press tasks in VR under sequential conditions, using realistic movement strategies and estimating muscle-level effort via a validated three-compartment control with recovery (3CC-r) fatigue model.
The simulated fatigue output serves as feedback for a UI agent that optimizes UI element layout via reinforcement learning (RL) to minimize fatigue.
We compare the RL-optimized layout against a manually-designed centered baseline and a Bayesian optimized baseline.
Results show that fatigue trends from the biomechanical model align with human user data.
Moreover, the RL-optimized layout using simulated fatigue feedback produced significantly lower perceived fatigue in a follow-up human study.
We further demonstrate the framework's extensibility via a simulated case study on longer sequential tasks with non-uniform interaction frequencies.
To our knowledge, this is the first work using simulated biomechanical muscle fatigue as a direct optimization signal for VR UI layout design.
Our findings highlight the potential of biomechanical user models as effective surrogate tools for ergonomic VR interface design, enabling efficient early-stage iteration with less reliance on extensive human participation.
In association with a large solar flare on November 7, 2004, the solar neutron detectors located at Mt.
Chacaltaya (5,250m) in Bolivia and Mt.
Sierra Negra (4,600m) in Mexico recorded very interesting events.
In order to explain these events, we have performed a calculation solving the equation of motion of anti-protons inside the magnetosphere.
Based on these results, the Mt.
Chacaltaya event may be explained by the detection of solar neutrons, while the Mt.
Sierra Negra event may be explained by the first detection of very high energy solar neutron decay protons (SNDPs) around 6 GeV.
During its first cycle of observations, the MAGIC (Major Atmospheric Gamma-ray Imaging Cherenkov) telescope has observed very high energy gamma-rays from five galactic objects: the Crab Nebula, the SNRs HESS J1813-178 and HESS J1834-087, the Galactic Center and the gamma-ray binary LS I +61 303.
After a short introduction to the MAGIC telescope and the data analysis procedure, the results of these five sources are reviewed.
The survey of the inner Galaxy with H.E.S.S. was remarkably successful in detecting a wide range of new very-high-energy gamma-ray sources.
New TeV gamma-ray emitting source classes were established, although several of the sources remain unidentified, and progress has been made in understanding particle acceleration in astrophysical sources.
In this work, we constructed a model of a population of such very-high-energy gamma-ray emitters and normalised the flux and size distribution of this population model to the H.E.S.S.-discovered sources.
Extrapolating that population of objects to lower flux levels we investigate what a future array of imaging atmospheric telescopes (IACTs) such as AGIS or CTA might detect in a survey of the Inner Galaxy with an order of magnitude improvement in sensitivity.
The sheer number of sources detected together with the improved resolving power will likely result in a huge improvement in our understanding of the populations of galactic gamma-ray sources.
A deep survey of the inner Milky Way would also support studies of the interstellar diffuse gamma-ray emission in regions of high cosmic-ray density.
In the final section of this paper we investigate the science potential for the Galactic Centre region for studying energy-dependent diffusion with such a future array.
In a society where traffic accidents frequently occur, fatigue driving has emerged as a grave issue.
Fatigue driving detection technology, especially those based on the YOLOv8 deep learning model, has seen extensive research and application as an effective preventive measure.
This paper discusses in depth the methods and technologies utilized in the YOLOv8 model to detect driver fatigue, elaborates on the current research status both domestically and internationally, and systematically introduces the processing methods and algorithm principles for various datasets.
This study aims to provide a robust technical solution for preventing and detecting fatigue driving, thereby contributing significantly to reducing traffic accidents and safeguarding lives.
Radio galaxies have emerged as a new gamma-ray emitting source class on the extragalactic sky.
With their jets misaligned, i.e. not directly pointing towards us, they offer a unique tool to probe some of the fundamental (and otherwise hidden) non-thermal processes in AGN.
This contribution briefly summarizes the observed characteristics of the four radio galaxies detected so far at very high energies (VHE).
Given its prominence, particular attention is given to the origin of the variable VHE emission in M87.
We discuss some of the theoretical progress achieved for this source within recent years highlighting, amongst others, the relevance of magnetospheric particle acceleration and emission models.
The present study analyzes the changes in acceleration produced by swimmers before and after fatiguing effort.
The subjects (n=15) performed a 25-meter crawl series at maximum speed without fatigue, and a second series with fatigue.
The data were registered with a synchronized system that consisted in a position transducer (1 kHz) and a video photogrametry (50Hz).
The acceleration (ms-2) was obtained by the derivative analysis of the variation of the position with time.
The amplitude in the time domain was calculated with the root mean square (RMS); while the peak power (PP), the peak power frequency (PPF) and the spectrum area (SA) was calculated in the frequency domain with Fourier analysis.
On one hand, the results of the temporal domain show that the RMS change percentage between series was 67.5% (p<0.001).
On the other hand, PP, PPF, and SA show significant changes (p<0.001).
PP and SA were reduced by 63.1% and 59.5%, respectively.
Our results show that the acceleration analysis of the swimmer with Fourier analysis permits a more precise understanding of which propulsive forces contribute to the swimmer performance before and after fatigue appears.
Since clicks usually contain heavy noise, increasing research efforts have been devoted to modeling implicit negative user behaviors (i.e., non-clicks).
However, they either rely on explicit negative user behaviors (e.g., dislikes) or simply treat non-clicks as negative feedback, failing to learn negative user interests comprehensively.
In such situations, users may experience fatigue because of seeing too many similar recommendations.
In this paper, we propose Fatigue-Aware Network (FAN), a novel CTR model that directly perceives user fatigue from non-clicks.
Specifically, we first apply Fourier Transformation to the time series generated from non-clicks, obtaining its frequency spectrum which contains comprehensive information about user fatigue.
Then the frequency spectrum is modulated by category information of the target item to model the bias that both the upper bound of fatigue and users' patience is different for different categories.
Moreover, a gating network is adopted to model the confidence of user fatigue and an auxiliary task is designed to guide the learning of user fatigue, so we can obtain a well-learned fatigue representation and combine it with user interests for the final CTR prediction.
Experimental results on real-world datasets validate the superiority of FAN and online A/B tests also show FAN outperforms representative CTR models significantly.
The rapid expansion of TAVR to younger, low-risk patients raises concerns regarding device durability.
Necessarily, extended stent lifetime will become more critical for new generation devices.
In vitro methods commonly used for TAVR stent fatigue testing exclude the effects of the beating heart.
We present a more realistic in silico stent fatigue analysis utilizing a beating heart model in which TAVR stents experience complex, nonuniform dynamic loading.
Virtual TAVR deployments were simulated in the SIMULIA Living Heart Human Model of a beating heart using stent models of the self-expandable nitinol 26-mm CoreValve and Evolut R devices, and a 27-mm PolyV-2.
Stent deformation was monitored over three cardiac cycles, and fatigue resistance was evaluated for the nitinol stents using finite element analysis via ABAQUS/Explicit.
In all models, there were elements in which strains exceeded fatigue failure.
The PolyV-2 stent had far fewer failing elements since its struts were optimized to reduce the strain in stent joints, achieving better fatigue resistance in the stent crown and waist elements.
Different stent sections showed markedly different fatigue resistance due to the varying loading conditions.
This study demonstrates the utility of advanced in silico analysis of devices deployed within a beating heart that mimics in vivo loading, offering a cost-effective alternative to human or animal trials and establishing a platform to assess the impact of device design on device durability.
The limited fatigue life of TAVR stents indicated here highlights a clinical complication that may eventually develop as younger, lower-risk TAVR patients, age.
Vocal fatigue refers to the feeling of tiredness and weakness of voice due to extended utilization.
This paper investigates the effectiveness of neural embeddings for the detection of vocal fatigue.
We compare x-vectors, ECAPA-TDNN, and wav2vec 2.0 embeddings on a corpus of academic spoken English.
Low-dimensional mappings of the data reveal that neural embeddings capture information about the change in vocal characteristics of a speaker during prolonged voice usage.
We show that vocal fatigue can be reliably predicted using all three kinds of neural embeddings after only 50 minutes of continuous speaking when temporal smoothing and normalization are applied to the extracted embeddings.
We employ support vector machines for classification and achieve accuracy scores of 81% using x-vectors, 85% using ECAPA-TDNN embeddings, and 82% using wav2vec 2.0 embeddings as input features.
We obtain an accuracy score of 76%, when the trained system is applied to a different speaker and recording environment without any adaptation.
We develop uniform confidence bands for the mean function of stationary time series as a post-hoc analysis of multiple change point detection in functional time series.
In particular, the methodology in this work provides bands for those segments where the jump size exceeds a certain threshold $Δ$.
In \cite{bastian2024multiplechangepointdetection} such exceedences of $Δ$ were related to fatigue states of a running athlete.
The extension to confidence bands stems from an interest in understanding the range of motion (ROM) of lower-extremity joints of running athletes under fatiguing conditions.
From a biomechanical perspective, ROM serves as a proxy for joint flexibility under varying fatigue states, offering individualized insights into potentially problematic movement patterns.
The new methodology provides a valuable tool for understanding the dynamic behavior of joint motion and its relationship to fatigue.
I briefly mention a few possible applications of very high spectral resolution spectroscopy with CRIRES to the study of nearby galaxies.
This includes the fields of AGN, dynamically cold systems, super stellar and emission line clusters, and a more speculative program on the measurement of gravitational redshifts.
Natural rubber (NR) is the most commonly used elastomer in the automotive industry thanks to its outstanding fatigue resistance.
Strain-induced crystallization (SIC) is found to play a role of paramount importance in the great crack growth resistance of NR [1].
Typically, NR exhibits a lifetime reinforcement for non-relaxing loadings [2-3].
At the microscopic scale, fatigue striations were observed on the fracture surface of Diabolo samples tested in fatigue.
They are the signature of SIC [2,4,5].
In order to provide additional information on the role of SIC in the fatigue crack growth resistance of NR, striations are investigated through post-mortem analysis after fatigue experiments using loading ranging from-0.25 to 0.25.
No striation was observed in the case of tests performed at 90{\textdegree}C.
This confirms that the formation of striation requires a certain crystallinity level in the material. At 23{\textdegree}C, two striation regimes were identified: small striation patches with different orientations (Regime 1) and zones with large and well-formed striations (Regime 2).
Since fatigue striations are observed for all the loading ratios applied, they are therefore not the signature of the reinforcement.
Nevertheless, increasing the minimum value of the strain amplified the striation phenomenon and the occurrence of Regime 2.
Data obtained in the very high energy gamma-ray band with the new generation of imaging telescopes, in particular through the galactic plane survey undertaken by H.E.S.S., low threshold observations with MAGIC and more recently by operation of VERITAS, have revealed dozens of galactic and extragalactic sources, providing a wealth of information on a variety of high energy acceleration sites in our universe.
Also, the water Cherenkov instrument Milagro has provided several extended sources after seven years of data integration.
An overview of these results with focus on some of the most recent highlights is given.
In this research, attempts are made to conduct concrete muscle fatigue analysis of arbitrary motions on OpenSim, a digital human modeling platform.
A plug-in is written on the base of a muscle fatigue model, which makes it possible to calculate the decline of force-output capability of each muscle along time.
The plug-in is tested on a three-dimensional, 29 degree-of-freedom human model.
Motion data is obtained by motion capturing during an arbitrary running at a speed of 3.96 m/s.
Ten muscles are selected for concrete analysis.
As a result, the force-output capability of these muscles reduced to 60%-70% after 10 minutes' running, on a general basis.
Erector spinae, which loses 39.2% of its maximal capability, is found to be more fatigue-exposed than the others.
The influence of subject attributes (fatigability) is evaluated and discussed.
Wireless Body Area Sensor Networks (WBASNs) consist of on-body or in-body sensors placed on human body for health monitoring.
Energy conservation of these sensors, while guaranteeing a required level of performance, is a challenging task.
Energy efficient routing schemes are designed for the longevity of network lifetime.
In this paper, we propose a routing protocol for measuring fatigue of a soldier.
Three sensors are attached to soldier's body that monitor specific parameters.
Our proposed protocol is an event driven protocol and takes three scenarios for measuring the fatigue of a soldier.
We evaluate our proposed work in terms of network lifetime, throughput, remaining energy of sensors and fatigue of a soldier.
Fatigue failure is ubiquitous in engineering applications.
While the total fatigue life is critical to understanding a component's operational life, for safety, regulatory compliance, and predictive maintenance, the characterization of initiation life is important.
Traditionally, initiation life is characterized by potential drop method, acoustic emission technique, and strain-based measurements.
However, the primary challenge with these methods lies in the necessity of calibration for each new material system.
The difficulties become even more aggravated for additively manufactured components, where fatigue properties are reported to vary widely in the open literature.
In this work, an analytical methodology is utilized to evaluate the initiation life of two different materials such as AlSi10Mg and SS316L, fabricated via laser-powder bed fusion (L-PBF) technique.
The processing parameters are selected such that AlSi10Mg behaves like a brittle material while SS316L shows ductile behavior.
A custom fatigue testing apparatus is used inside Computed Tomography (CT) for evaluating fatigue initiation.
The apparatus reports load-displacement data, which is post-processed using an analytical approach to calculate the evolution of material compliance.
The results indicate that crack initiation during fatigue loading is marked by a noticeable change in compliance.
The analytical technique shows a maximum difference of 4.8% in predicting initiation life compared to CT imaging.
These findings suggest that compliance monitoring can effectively identify fatigue initiation in various materials.
Monitoring fatigue is essential for improving safety, particularly for people who work long shifts or in high-demand workplaces.
The development of wearable technologies, such as fitness trackers and smartwatches, has made it possible to continuously analyze physiological signals in real-time to determine a person level of exhaustion.
This has allowed for timely insights into preventing hazards associated with fatigue.
This review focuses on wearable technology and artificial intelligence (AI) integration for tiredness detection, adhering to the PRISMA principles.
Studies that used signal processing methods to extract pertinent aspects from physiological data, such as ECG, EMG, and EEG, among others, were analyzed as part of the systematic review process.
Then, to find patterns of weariness and indicators of impending fatigue, these features were examined using machine learning and deep learning models.
It was demonstrated that wearable technology and cutting-edge AI methods could accurately identify weariness through multi-modal data analysis.
By merging data from several sources, information fusion techniques enhanced the precision and dependability of fatigue evaluation.
Significant developments in AI-driven signal analysis were noted in the assessment, which should improve real-time fatigue monitoring while requiring less interference.
Wearable solutions powered by AI and multi-source data fusion present a strong option for real-time tiredness monitoring in the workplace and other crucial environments.
These developments open the door for more improvements in this field and offer useful tools for enhancing safety and reducing fatigue-related hazards.
The new method is proposed to monitor the level of current physical load and accumulated fatigue by several objective and subjective characteristics.
It was applied to the dataset targeted to estimate the physical load and fatigue by several statistical and machine learning methods.
The data from peripheral sensors (accelerometer, GPS, gyroscope, magnetometer) and brain-computing interface (electroencephalography) were collected, integrated, and analyzed by several statistical and machine learning methods (moment analysis, cluster analysis, principal component analysis, etc.).
The hypothesis 1 was presented and proved that physical activity can be classified not only by objective parameters, but by subjective parameters also.
The hypothesis 2 (experienced physical load and subsequent restoration as fatigue level can be estimated quantitatively and distinctive patterns can be recognized) was presented and some ways to prove it were demonstrated.
Several "physical load" and "fatigue" metrics were proposed.
The results presented allow to extend application of the machine learning methods for characterization of complex human activity patterns (for example, to estimate their actual physical load and fatigue, and give cautions and advice).
Although automatic techniques have been employed in manufacturing industries to increase productivity and efficiency, there are still lots of manual handling jobs, especially for assembly and maintenance jobs.
In these jobs, musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are one of the major health problems due to overload and cumulative physical fatigue.
With combination of conventional posture analysis techniques, digital human modelling and simulation (DHM) techniques have been developed and commercialized to evaluate the potential physical exposures.
However, those ergonomics analysis tools are mainly based on posture analysis techniques, and until now there is still no fatigue index available in the commercial software to evaluate the physical fatigue easily and quickly.
In this paper, a new muscle fatigue and recovery model is proposed and extended to evaluate joint fatigue level in manual handling jobs.
A special application case is described and analyzed by digital human simulation technique.
We have studied the polarization fatigue of La and Mg co-substituted BiFeO3 thin film, where a polarization peak is observed during the fatigue process.
The origin of such anomalous behavior is analyzed on the basis of the defect evolution using temperature-dependent impedance spectroscopy.
It shows that the motion of oxygen vacancies (VO..) is associated with a lower energy barrier, accompanied by the injection of electrons into the film during the fatigue process.
A qualitative model is proposed to explain the fatigue behavior, which involves the modification of the Schottky barrier upon the accumulation of VO.. at the metal-dielectric interface.
Fatigue detection for human operators plays a key role in safety critical applications such as aviation, mining, and long haul transport.
While numerous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of high fidelity sensors in controlled laboratory environments, their performance often degrades when ported to real world settings due to noise, lighting conditions, and field of view constraints, thereby limiting their practicality.
This paper formalizes a deployment oriented setting for real world fatigue detection, where high quality sensors are often unavailable in practical applications.
To address this challenge, we propose leveraging knowledge from heterogeneous source domains, including high fidelity sensors that are difficult to deploy in the field but commonly used in controlled environments, to assist fatigue detection in the real world target domain.
Building on this idea, we design a heterogeneous and multiple source fatigue detection framework that adaptively utilizes the available modalities in the target domain while exploiting diverse configurations in the source domains through alignment across domains and modality imputation.
Our experiments, conducted using a field deployed sensor setup and two publicly available human fatigue datasets, demonstrate the practicality, robustness, and improved generalization of our approach across subjects and domains.
The proposed method achieves consistent gains over strong baselines in sensor constrained scenarios.
This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication.
Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible.
Additive manufacturing, especially laser powder bed fusion (L-PBF), is widely used for fabricating metal parts with intricate geometries.
However, parts produced via L-PBF suffer from varied surface roughness which affects the dynamic or fatigue properties.
Accurate prediction of fatigue properties as a function of surface roughness is a critical requirement for qualifying L-PBF parts.
In this work, an analytical methodology is put forth to predict the fatigue life of L-PBF components having heterogeneous surface roughness.
Thirty-six Hastelloy X specimens are printed using L-PBF followed by industry-standard heat treatment procedures.
Half of these specimens are built with as-printed gauge sections and the other half is printed as cylinders from which fatigue specimens are extracted via machining.
Specimens are printed in a vertical orientation and an orientation 30 degree from the vertical axis.
The surface roughness of the specimens is measured using computed tomography and parameters such as the maximum valley depth are used to build an extreme value distribution.
Fatigue testing is conducted at an isothermal condition of 500-degree F.
It is observed that the rough specimens fail much earlier compared to the machined specimens due to the deep valleys present on the surfaces of the former ones.
The valleys act as notches leading to high strain localization.
Following this observation, a functional relationship is formulated analytically that considers surface valleys as notches and correlates the strain localization around those notches with fatigue life, using the Coffin-Manson-Basquin and Ramberg-Osgood equation.
In conclusion, the proposed analytical model successfully predicts the fatigue life of L-PBF specimens at an elevated temperature undergoing different strain loadings.
Connections among entities are everywhere.
From social media interactions to web page hyperlinks, networks are frequently used to represent such complex systems.
Node ranking is a fundamental task that provides the strategy to identify central entities according to multiple criteria.
Popular node ranking metrics include degree, closeness or betweenness centralities, as well as HITS authority or PageRank.
In this work, we propose a novel node ranking metric, where we combine PageRank and the idea of node fatigue, in order to model a random explorer who wants to optimize coverage - it gets fatigued and avoids previously visited nodes.
We formalize and exemplify the computation of Fatigued PageRank, evaluating it as a node ranking metric, as well as query-independent evidence in ad hoc document retrieval. Based on the Simple English Wikipedia link graph with clickstream transitions from the English Wikipedia, we find that Fatigued PageRank is able to surpass both indegree and HITS authority, but only for the top ranking nodes.
On the other hand, based on the TREC Washington Post Corpus, we were unable to outperform the BM25 baseline, obtaining similar performance for all graph-based metrics, except for indegree, which lowered GMAP and MAP, but increased NDCG@10 and P@10.
With the rapid growth of wind power penetration, wind farms (WFs) are required to implement frequency regulation that active power control to track a given power reference.
Due to the wake interaction of the wind turbines (WTs), there is more than one solution to distributing power reference among the operating WTs, which can be exploited as an optimization problem for the second goal, such as fatigue load alleviation.
In this paper, a closed-loop model predictive controller is developed that minimizes the wind farm tracking errors, the dynamical fatigue load, and and the load equalization.
The controller is evaluated in a mediumfidelity model.
A 64 WTs simulation case study is used to demonstrate the control performance for different penalty factor settings.
The results indicated the WF can alleviate dynamical fatigue load and have no significant impact on power tracking.
However, the uneven load distribution in the wind turbine system poses challenges for maintenance.
By adding a trade-off between the load equalization and dynamical fatigue load, the load differences between WTs are significantly reduced, while the dynamical fatigue load slightly increases when selecting a proper penalty factor.
Traffic accidents, causing millions of deaths and billions of dollars in economic losses each year globally, have become a significant issue.
One of the main causes of these accidents is drivers being sleepy or fatigued.
Recently, various studies have focused on detecting drivers' sleep/wake states using camera-based solutions that do not require physical contact with the driver, thereby enhancing ease of use.
In this study, besides the eye blink frequency, a driver adaptive eye blink behavior feature set have been evaluated to detect the fatigue status.
It is observed from the results that behavior of eye blink carries useful information on fatigue detection.
The developed image-based system provides a solution that can work adaptively to the physical characteristics of the drivers and their positions in the vehicle
Centaurus A is the nearest radio-loud AGN and is detected from radio to very high energy gamma-rays.
Its nuclear spectral energy distribution shows two peaks, one in the far-infrared band and another at about 150 keV.
By assuming the second peak is due to the electron synchrotron emission and the power index for the differential spectrum of the very high energy cosmic ray proton to be 2.7 we show that only pp interaction is responsible for the observed GeV-TeV emission from Centaurus A.
We also found that indeed many very high energy cosmic ray protons from Centaurus A can arrive on Earth thus supporting the recent observation of two events by Pierre Auger Observatory.
Previous work on fatigue prediction in Powder Bed Fusion - Laser Beam has shown that the estimate of the largest pore size within the stressed volume is correlated with the resulting fatigue behavior in porosity-driven failures.
However, single value estimates for the largest pore size are insufficient to capture the experimentally observed scatter in fatigue properties.
To address this gap, in this work, we incorporate uncertainty quantification into extreme value statistics to estimate the largest pore size distribution in a given volume of material by capturing uncertainty in the number of pores present and the upper tail parameters.
We then applied this statistical framework to compare the porosity equivalence between two geometries: a 4-point bend fatigue specimen and an axial fatigue specimen in the gauge section.
Both geometries were manufactured with the same process conditions using Ti-6Al-4V, followed by porosity characterization via X-ray Micro CT.
The results show that the largest pore size distribution of the 4-point bend specimen is insufficient to accurately capture the largest pore size observed in the axial fatigue specimen, despite similar dimensions.
Based on our findings, we provide insight into the design of witness coupons that exhibit part-to-coupon porosity equivalence for fatigue.
Predictive simulation of human motion could provide insight into optimal techniques.
In repetitive or long-duration tasks, these simulations must predict fatigue-induced adaptation.
However, most studies minimize cost function terms related to actuator activations, assuming it minimizes fatigue.
An additional modeling layer is needed to consider the previous use of muscles to reveal adaptive strategies to the decreased force production capability.
Here, we propose interfacing Xia's three-compartment fatigue dynamics model with rigid-body dynamics.
A stabilization invariant was added to Xia's model.
We simulated the maximum repetition of dumbbell biceps curls as an optimal control problem (OCP) using direct multiple shooting.
We explored three cost functions (minimizing minimum torque, fatigue, or both) and two OCP formulations (full-horizon and sliding-horizon approaches).
We found that Xia's model modified with the stabilization invariant (10 or 5) was adapted to direct multiple shooting.
Sliding-horizon OCPs achieved 20 to 21 repetitions.
The kinematic strategy slowly deviated from a plausible dumbbell lifting task to a swinging strategy as fatigue onset increasingly compromised the ability to keep the arm vertical. In full-horizon OCPs, the latter kinematic strategy was used over the whole motion, resulting in 32 repetitions.
We showed that sliding-horizon OCPs revealed a reactive strategy to fatigue when only torque was included in the cost function, whereas an anticipatory strategy was revealed when the fatigue term was included in the cost function.
Overall, the proposed approach has the potential to be a valuable tool in optimizing performance and helping reduce fatigue-related injuries in a variety of fields.
The Westerlund 1 (Wd 1) is the most massive known young star cluster in the Galaxy, and an extended $γ$-ray source HESS J1646-458 surrounding it has been detected up to 80 TeV in the very high energy, implying that cosmic rays (CRs) are accelerated effectively in the region.
However, the dominant radiation process contributing to the $γ$-ray emission is not well constrained.
In the present work, we develop a model of CR acceleration at the termination shock in the superbubble inflated by the interaction of the cluster wind from the Wd 1 with the surrounding interstellar medium.
We then calculate the flux and radial profile of $γ$ rays produced by the inelastic collisions of the hadronic CRs with the ambient gas.
Our results with reasonable parameters can explain well the spectrum and radial profile of the $γ$-ray emission of HESS J1646-458, and consequently the $γ$-ray emission of HESS J1646-458 is likely to be of hadronic origin.
In the last ten years, the phase-field method has gained much attention as a novel method to simulate fracture due to its straightforward way allowing to cover crack initiation and propagation without additional conditions.
More recently, it has also been applied to fatigue fracture due to cyclic loading.
This publication gives an overview of the main phase-field fatigue models published to date.
We present all models in a unified variational framework for best comparability.
Subsequently, the models are compared regarding their most important features.
It becomes apparent that they can be classified in mainly two categories according to the way fatigue is implemented in the model - that is as a gradual degradation of the fracture toughness or with an additional term in the crack driving force.
We aim to provide a helpful guide for choosing the appropriate model for different applications and for developing existing models further.
Separate studies have reported that postural control during quiet standing could be (1) impaired with muscle fatigue localized at the lower back, and (2) improved through the use of plantar pressure-based electro-tactile biofeedback, under normal neuromuscular state.
The aim of this experiment was to investigate whether this biofeedback could reduce postural destabilization induced by trunk extensor muscles.
Ten healthy adults were asked to stand as immobile as possible in four experimental conditions: (1) no fatigue/no biofeedback, (2) no fatigue/biofeedback, (3) fatigue/no biofeedback and (4) fatigue/biofeedback.
Muscular fatigue was achieved by performing trunk repetitive extensions until maximal exhaustion.
The underlying principle of the biofeedback consisted of providing supplementary information related to foot sole pressure distribution through electro-tactile stimulation of the tongue.
Centre of foot pressure (CoP) displacements were recorded using a force platform.
Results showed (1) increased CoP displacements along the antero-posterior axis in the fatigue than no fatigue condition in the absence of biofeedback and (2) no significant difference between the no fatigue and fatigue conditions in the presence of biofeedback.
This suggests that subjects were able to efficiently integrate an artificial plantar pressure information delivered through electro-tactile stimulation of the tongue that allowed them to suppress the destabilizing effect induced by trunk extensor muscles fatigue.
We numerically analyze the evolution of a long-duration gamma-ray burst jet as it leaves the progenitor star and propagates to the photospheric radius, where radiation can be released.
We find that the interaction of the relativistic material with the progenitor star has influences well beyond the stellar surface.
Tangential collimation shocks are observed throughout the jet evolution, out to about 100 stellar radii, which is the whole range of our simulation.
We find that the jet is internally hot at the photospheric radius and we compute the photospheric emission.
The photosphere is a very efficient radiator, capable of converting more than half of the total energy of the jet into radiation.
We show that bright photospheres are a common feature of jets born inside massive progenitor stars and that this effect can explain the high radiative efficiency observed in long-duration bursts.
Non-thermal variable emission from radio to very-high energy gamma rays (VHE; >100 GeV) are the prime characteristics of gamma-ray binaries.
The underlying physical processes leading to the observed VHE emission are not well understood, as even the most basic features of these systems are under dispute (microquasar model vs shocked pulsar wind model).
VHE binaries can be difficult to observe, some have orbital periods of the order of years (e.g. HESS J0632+057 or PSR B1259-69) or show irregular emission patterns as observed in LS I +61 303.
We present here new VERITAS observations of the binary systems LS I +61 303 and HESS J0632+057 carried out with higher sensitivity and more dense temporal coverage than previous observations.
The gamma-ray results and their astrophysical implications are discussed in the context of contemporaneous observations with Swift XRT and Fermi LAT at X-ray and gamma-ray energies.
The paper presents a conceptual, multidimensional approach to understand the technological factors that are assumed to or even have been proven to contribute to what has been coined as Zoom Fatigue (ZF) or more generally Videoconferencing Fatigue (VCF).
With the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, the usage of VC services has drastically increased, leading to more and more reports about the ZF or VCF phenomenon.
The paper is motivated by the fact that some of the media outlets initially starting the debate on what Zoom fatigue is and how it can be avoided, as well as some of the scientific papers addressing the topic, contain assumptions that are rather hypothetical and insufficiently underpinned by scientific evidence.
Most of these works are acknowledge the lacking evidence and partly suggest directions for future research.
This paper intends to deepen the survey of VC-technology-related literature and to provide more existing evidence, where possible, while reviewing some of the already provided support or evidence for certain causal hypotheses.
The technological factors dimension and its identified sub-dimensions presented in this paper are embedded within a more holistic four-dimensional conceptual factors model describing the causes for ZF or VCF.
The paper describing this overall conceptual model is written by the same group of authors and currently under revision for an Open Access Journal publication.
The present paper expands on the technological factors dimension descriptions provided in the overall model paper and provides more detailed analyzes and concepts associated with how VC technology may affect users' perception, cognitive load, interaction and communication, possibly leading to stress, exhaustion and fatigue.
The paper currently is a living document which will be expanded further with regard to the evidence for or against the impact of certain technological factors.
Although running is a common leisure activity and a core training regiment for several athletes, between $29\%$ and $79\%$ of runners sustain an overuse injury each year.
These injuries are linked to excessive fatigue, which alters how someone runs.
In this work, we explore the feasibility of modelling the Borg received perception of exertion (RPE) scale (range: $[6-20]$), a well-validated subjective measure of fatigue, using audio data captured in realistic outdoor environments via smartphones attached to the runners' arms.
Using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) on log-Mel spectrograms, we obtain a mean absolute error of $2.35$ in subject-dependent experiments, demonstrating that audio can be effectively used to model fatigue, while being more easily and non-invasively acquired than by signals from other sensors.
The vast majority of the pulsars detected by the Fermi Large Area Telescope (LAT) display spectra with exponential cutoffs falling in a narrow range around a few GeV.
Early spectral modelling predicted spectral cutoff energies of up to 100 GeV.
More modern studies estimated spectral cutoff energies in the 1-20 GeV range.
It was therefore not expected that pulsars would be visible in the very-high-energy (VHE; >100 GeV) regime.
The VERITAS detection (confirmed by MAGIC) of pulsed emission from the Crab pulsar up to 400 GeV (and now possibly up to 1 TeV) therefore raised important questions about our understanding of the electrodynamics and local environment of pulsars.
H.E.S.S. has now detected pulsed emission from the Vela pulsar in the 20-120 GeV range, making this the second pulsar detected by a ground-based Cherenkov telescope.
We will review the latest developments in VHE pulsar science, including an overview of recent observations and refinements to radiation models and magnetic field structures.
This will assist us in interpreting the VHE emission detected from the Crab and Vela pulsars, and predicting the level of VHE emission expected from other pulsars, which will be very important for the upcoming CTA.
Driver fatigue is a major cause of traffic accidents and the electroencephalogram (EEG) is considered one of the most reliable predictors of fatigue.
This paper proposes a novel, simple and fast method for driver fatigue detection that can be implemented in real-time systems by using a single-channel on the scalp.
The method based on the robust univariate analysis of EEG signals is composed of two stages.
First, the most significant channel from EEG raw is selected according to the maximum variance.
In the second stage, this single channel will be used to detect the fatigue EEG signal by extracting four feature parameters.
Two parameters estimated from the robust univariate analysis, namely mean and covariance, and two classical statistics parameters such as variance and covariance that help to tune the robust analysis.
Next, an ensemble bagged decision trees classifier is used in order to discriminate fatigue signals from alert signals.
The proposed algorithm is demonstrated on 24 EEG signals from the Jiangxi University of Technology database using only the most significant channel found, which is located in the left tempo-parietal region where spatial awareness and visual-spatial navigation are shared, in terms of 92.7% accuracy with 1.8 seconds of time delay.
In this study, we propose the hypothesis that there is a significant difference in thermal cycling fatigue resistance between the bones of ectothermic and endothermic animals.
We performed an experiment to test whether bones of endothermic animals, having potentially lost their ability to adapt to thermal cycling, exhibit reduced resistance to thermal fatigue compared to ectothermic animals, which may have retained this adaptive trait due to their environmental conditions.
The change in stiffness were determined using shifts in the resonant peaks of the frequency spectrum obtained from Resonant Ultrasonic Spectroscopy (RUS).
To achieve this, samples of compact (cortical) and spongy bone tissue were extracted and polished before undergoing a 29-day period of thermal cycling.
The changes in the resonance frequencies were then observed.
Changes in resonant frequencies imply corresponding changes in elastic constants.
The primary findings indicated that bones from ectothermic species exhibited minimal changes in elastic properties compared to those from endothermic species, as evidenced by the smaller shifts in resonant peak magnitudes following thermal cycling.
Cognitive fatigue has been a common problem among workers which has become an increasing global problem since the emergence of COVID-19 as a global pandemic.
While existing multi-modal wearable sensors-aided automatic cognitive fatigue monitoring tools have focused on physical and physiological sensors (ECG, PPG, Actigraphy) analytic on specific group of people (say gamers, athletes, construction workers), activity-awareness is utmost importance due to its different responses on physiology in different person.
In this paper, we propose a novel framework, Activity-Aware Recurrent Neural Network (\emph{AcRoNN}), that can generalize individual activity recognition and improve cognitive fatigue estimation significantly.
We evaluate and compare our proposed method with state-of-art methods using one real-time collected dataset from 5 individuals and another publicly available dataset from 27 individuals achieving max. 19% improvement.
As fatigue is normally revealed in the eyes and mouth of a person's face, this paper tried to construct a XGBoost Algorithm-Based fatigue recognition model using the two indicators, EAR (Eye Aspect Ratio) and MAR(Mouth Aspect Ratio).
With an accuracy rate of 87.37% and sensitivity rate of 89.14%, the model was proved to be efficient and valid for further applications.
Injuries to the knee joint are very common for long-distance and frequent runners, an issue which is often attributed to fatigue.
We address the problem of fatigue detection from biomechanical data from different sources, consisting of lower extremity joint angles and ground reaction forces from running athletes with the goal of better understanding the impact of fatigue on the biomechanics of runners in general and on an individual level.
This is done by sequentially testing for change in a datastream using a simple martingale test statistic.
Time-uniform probabilistic martingale bounds are provided which are used as thresholds for the test statistic.
Sharp bounds can be developed by a hybrid of a piece-wise linear- and a law of iterated logarithm- bound over all time regimes, where the probability of an early detection is controlled in a uniform way.
If the underlying distribution of the data gradually changes over the course of a run, then a timely upcrossing of the martingale over these bounds is expected.
The methods are developed for a setting when change sets in gradually in an incoming stream of data.
Parameter selection for the bounds are based on simulations and methodological comparison is done with respect to existing advances.
The algorithms presented here can be easily adapted to an online change-detection setting.
Finally, we provide a detailed data analysis based on extensive measurements of several athletes and benchmark the fatigue detection results with the runners' individual feedback over the course of the data collection.
Qualitative conclusions on the biomechanical profiles of the athletes can be made based on the shape of the martingale trajectories even in the absence of an upcrossing of the threshold.
Muscle fatigue is usually defined as a decrease in the ability to produce force.
The surface electromyography (sEMG) signals have been widely used to provide information about muscle activities including detecting muscle fatigue by various data-driven techniques such as machine learning and statistical approaches.
However, it is well-known that sEMG signals are weak signals (low amplitude of the signals) with a low signal-to-noise ratio, data-driven techniques cannot work well when the quality of the data is poor.
In particular, the existing methods are unable to detect muscle fatigue coming from static poses.
This work exploits the concept of weak monotonicity, which has been observed in the process of fatigue, to robustly detect muscle fatigue in the presence of measurement noises and human variations.
Such a population trend methodology has shown its potential in muscle fatigue detection as demonstrated by the experiment of a static pose.
Repetitive tasks in industrial works may contribute to health problems among operators, such as musculo-skeletal disorders, in part due to insufficient control of muscle fatigue.
In this paper, a predictive model of fatigue is proposed for repetitive push/pull operations.
Assumptions generally accepted in the literature are first explicitly set in this framework.
Then, an earlier static fatigue model is recalled and extended to quasi-static situations.
Specifically, the maximal torque that can be generated at a joint is not considered as constant, but instead varies over time accordingly to the operator's changing posture.
The fatigue model is implemented with this new consideration and evaluated in a simulation of push/pull operation.
Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Sakka, S., Chablat, D., Ma, R. and Bennis, F.
(2015) 'Predictive model of the human muscle fatigue: application to repetitive push-pull tasks with light external load', Int.
We pursue the study of fatigue accumulation in an oscillating elastoplastic beam under the additional hypothesis that the material can partially recover by the effect of melting.
The full system consists of the momentum and energy balance equations, an evolution equation for the fatigue rate, and a differential inclusion for the phase dynamics.
The main result consists in proving the existence and uniqueness of a strong solution.
Recent data from the LHC makes it possible to examine an old speculation that at very high energy the total multiplicity and the cross section in elementary particle interactions vary in parallel with energy.
Using fits incorporating the new data, it appears that the ratios of the total, elastic, and inelastic cross sections to the average multiplicity N can in fact approach constants at very high energy.
The approach to the limit is however quite slow for the total and inelastic cross sections and is not yet reached at LHC energies.
The elastic ratio sigma^{el}/N at 7 TeV, however, is not far from its asymptotic value.
As recommender systems send a massive amount of content to keep users engaged, users may experience fatigue which is contributed by 1) an overexposure to irrelevant content, 2) boredom from seeing too many similar recommendations.
To address this problem, we consider an online learning setting where a platform learns a policy to recommend content that takes user fatigue into account.
We propose an extension of the Dependent Click Model (DCM) to describe users' behavior.
We stipulate that for each piece of content, its attractiveness to a user depends on its intrinsic relevance and a discount factor which measures how many similar contents have been shown.
Users view the recommended content sequentially and click on the ones that they find attractive.
Users may leave the platform at any time, and the probability of exiting is higher when they do not like the content.
Based on user's feedback, the platform learns the relevance of the underlying content as well as the discounting effect due to content fatigue.
We refer to this learning task as "fatigue-aware DCM Bandit" problem.
We consider two learning scenarios depending on whether the discounting effect is known.
For each scenario, we propose a learning algorithm which simultaneously explores and exploits, and characterize its regret bound.
The new method is proposed to monitor the level of currently accumulated fatigue and estimate it by the several statistical methods.
The experimental software application was developed and used to get data from sensors (accelerometer, GPS, gyroscope, magnetometer, and camera), conducted experiments, collected data, calculated parameters of their distributions (mean, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis), and analyzed them by statistical methods (moment analysis, cluster analysis, bootstrapping, periodogram and spectrogram analyses).
The hypothesis 1 (physical activity can be estimated and classified by moment and cluster analysis) and hypothesis 2 (fatigue can be estimated by moment analysis, bootstrapping analysis, periodogram, and spectrogram) were proposed and proved.
Several "fatigue metrics" were proposed: location, size, shape of clouds of points on bootstrapping plot.
The most promising fatigue metrics is the distance from the "rest" state point to the "fatigue" state point (sum of 3 squared non-normal distribution of non-correlated acceleration values) on the skewness-kurtosis plot.
These hypotheses were verified on several persons of various age, gender, fitness level and improved standard statistical methods in similar researches.
The method can be used in practice for ordinary people in everyday situations (to estimate their fatigue, give tips about it and advice on context-related information).
The rise of autonomous driving technology has led to concerns about inactivity-induced fatigue.
This paper explores Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) scents for mitigating.
Two human-involved studies have been conducted in a high-fidelity driving simulator.
Study 1 maps six prevalent TCM scents onto the arousal/valence circumplex to select proper candidates, i.e., argy wormwood (with the highest arousal) and tangerine peel (with the highest valence).
Study 2 tests both scents in an auto-driving course.
Statistics show both scents can improve driver alertness and reaction-time, but should be used in different ways: argy wormwood is suitable for short-term use due to its higher intensity but poor acceptance, while tangerine peel is ideal for long-term use due to its higher likeness.
These findings provide insights for in-car fatigue mitigation to enhance driver safety and well-being.
However, issues such as scent longevity as for aromatherapy and automatic fatigue prediction remain unresolved.
Detecting driver fatigue is critical for road safety, as drowsy driving remains a leading cause of traffic accidents.
Many existing solutions rely on computationally demanding deep learning models, which result in high latency and are unsuitable for embedded robotic devices with limited resources (such as intelligent vehicles/cars) where rapid detection is necessary to prevent accidents.
This paper introduces LiteFat, a lightweight spatio-temporal graph learning model designed to detect driver fatigue efficiently while maintaining high accuracy and low computational demands.
LiteFat involves converting streaming video data into spatio-temporal graphs (STG) using facial landmark detection, which focuses on key motion patterns and reduces unnecessary data processing.
LiteFat uses MobileNet to extract facial features and create a feature matrix for the STG.
A lightweight spatio-temporal graph neural network is then employed to identify signs of fatigue with minimal processing and low latency.
Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that LiteFat performs competitively while significantly decreasing computational complexity and latency as compared to current state-of-the-art methods.
This work enables the development of real-time, resource-efficient human fatigue detection systems that can be implemented upon embedded robotic devices.
HfO2-based ferroelectric materials are promising for the next generation of memory devices, attracting significant attention.
However, their potential applications are significantly limited by fatigue and imprint phenomena, which affect device lifetime and memory capabilities.
Here, to accurately describe the dynamics and field effects of HfO2, we adopt our newly developed DREAM-Allegro network scheme and develop a comprehensive machine-learning model for HfO2.
Such model can not only predict the interatomic potential, but also predict Born effective charges.
Applying such model, we explore the role of domain dynamics in HfO2 and find that the fatigue and imprint phenomena are closely related to the so-called E-path and T-path switching pathways.
Based on the different atomic motions in the two paths, we propose that an inclined electric field can sufficiently suppress fatigue and enhancing the performance of HfO2-based ferroelectric devices.
We explore the possibility of utilizing the prompt muon fluxes at very high energies in order to discriminate various models/parametrizations of low-x QCD behaviour of hadronic cross-sections relevant at such energies.
We find that the pair meter technique for measuring high energy prompt muons can be very efficient in such an endeavor.
As a by product, it allows to cleanly probe the change in composition of the primary cosmic rays expected at high energies.
The purpose of the present experiment was to investigate the effects of cervical muscular fatigue on postural control during quiet standing under different conditions of reliability and/or availability of somatosensory inputs from the plantar soles and the ankles and visual information.
To this aim, 14 young healthy adults were asked to sway as little as possible in three sensory conditions (No vision, No vision-Foam support and Vision) executed in two conditions of No fatigue and Fatigue of the scapula elevator muscles.
Results showed that (1) the cervical muscular fatigue yielded increased CoP displacements in the absence of vision, (2) this effect was more accentuated when somatosensation was degraded by standing on a foam surface and (3) the availability of vision allowed the individuals to suppress this destabilising effect.
On the whole, these findings not only stress the importance of intact cervical neuromuscular function on postural control during quiet standing, but also suggest a reweigthing of sensory cues in balance control following cervical muscular fatigue by increasing the reliance on the somatosensory inputs from the plantar soles and the ankles and visual information.
This work evaluates the potential root causes of fatigue using a biomathematical model and a robust sample of aircrew rosters from the Brazilian regular aviation.
The fatigue outcomes derive from the software Sleep, Activity, Fatigue, and Task Effectiveness Fatigue Avoidance Scheduling Tool (SAFTE-FAST).
The average minimum SAFTE-FAST effectiveness during critical phases of flight decreases cubically with the number of shifts that elapse totally or partially between mid-night and 6 a.m. within a 30-day period ($N_{NS}$).
As a consequence, the relative fatigue risk increases by 23.3% (95% CI, 20.4-26.2%) when increasing $N_{NS}$ from 1 to 13.
The average maximum equivalent wakefulness in critical phases also increases cubically with the number of night shifts and exceeds 24 hours for rosters with $N_{NS}$ above 10.
The average fatigue hazard area in critical phases of flight varies quadratically with the number of departures and landings within 2 and 6 a.m.
These findings demonstrate that both $N_{NS}$ and $ N_{Wocl}$ should be considered as key performance indicators and be kept as low as reasonably practical when building aircrew rosters.
The effectiveness scores at 30 minute time intervals allowed a model estimate for the relative fatigue risk as a function of the time of the day, whose averaged values show reasonable qualitative agreement with previous measurements of pilot errors.
Tailored analyses of the SAFTE-FAST inputs for afternoon naps before night shifts, commuting from home to station and vice-versa, and bedtime before early-start shifts show relevant group effects ($p < 0.001$) comparing the groups with and without afternoon naps, with one or two hours of commuting and with or without the advanced bedtime feature of the SAFTE-FAST software, evidencing the need of a better and more accurate understanding of these parameters when modelling fatigue risk factors.
We present FatigueFormer, a semi-end-to-end framework that deliberately combines saliency-guided feature separation with deep temporal modeling to learn interpretable and generalizable muscle fatigue dynamics from surface electromyography (sEMG).
Unlike prior approaches that struggle to maintain robustness across varying Maximum Voluntary Contraction (MVC) levels due to signal variability and low SNR, FatigueFormer employs parallel Transformer-based sequence encoders to separately capture static and temporal feature dynamics, fusing their complementary representations to improve performance stability across low- and high-MVC conditions.
Evaluated on a self-collected dataset spanning 30 participants across four MVC levels (20-80%), it achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and strong generalization under mild-fatigue conditions.
Beyond performance, FatigueFormer enables attention-based visualization of fatigue dynamics, revealing how feature groups and time windows contribute differently across varying MVC levels, offering interpretable insight into fatigue progression.
The detection of very-high-energy (VHE; $>$100 GeV) $γ$-ray radiation from misaligned jetted Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) challenges the emission models that primarily explain VHE emissions from beamed AGN, i.e., blazars.
Using over 16 years of \textit{Fermi}-Large Area Telescope (\textit{Fermi}-LAT) Pass 8 data in the energy range 0.1$-$2 TeV, we systematically explore the VHE emission from a recently published sample of 160 radio galaxies.
We identify 12 sources detected at $>4σ$ confidence level (test statistic or TS$>$16), including nine with TS$>$25 and two Fanaroff-Riley type II objects.
This detected sample includes seven out of eight previously known VHE objects.
Two radio galaxies are detected in the VHE band for the first time, and we identify three promising candidates with 16$<$TS$<$25.
Additionally, 13 objects are identified as candidate VHE emitters with at least one VHE photon detected with the \textit{Fermi}-LAT.
These findings expand the sample of known VHE-emitting radio galaxies, whose multiwavelength follow-up observations can help provide insights into the emission mechanisms, jet physics, and the contribution of misaligned AGN to the extragalactic $γ$-ray background.
We present a search for spatio-temporal clusters in 16 years of Fermi-LAT very-high-energy (VHE; $E>100$~GeV) data using the DBSCAN algorithm, focusing on high Galactic latitude ($|b|>10^{\circ}$) clusters with $\geq5$ events and transient doublets (two events within $\leq 3$ days).
Of 107 detected clusters, two correspond to previously unidentified VHE sources: weak BL Lacertae objects 4FGL J0039.1-2219 and 4FGL J0212.2-0219, promising targets for next-generation VHE observatories.
Due to the low VHE photon background, even doublets with a duration of several days exhibited high statistical significance.
While most of the 114 detected doublets originated from bright TeV emitters (e.g., Mrk 421, Mrk 501), we identified six VHE flares lacking TeVCat associations.
Five of these flares correlate with sources from the Third Catalog of Fermi-LAT High-Energy Sources (3FHL), while one 'orphan' flare lacks a high-energy (HE; $E > 10$~GeV) source counterpart.
Some of these flares reached extreme luminosities of $\mathcal{O}(10^{47}~\mathrm{erg~s^{-1}})$.
No consistent temporal correlation emerged between HE and VHE activity: HE flares preceded, coincided with, or followed VHE emission across sources, with some showing no HE counterpart.
Remarkably, 3FHL J0308.4+0408 (NGC 1218) is a Seyfert Type I galaxy, while no object of this class was known as a VHE emitter before.
The 'orphan' flare without any known HE source in the vicinity may originate from NGC 5549, a low-luminosity LINER galaxy.
Both sources expand the limited sample of non-blazar AGN detected at VHE energies.
The fact that some weak sources with non-aligned jets and, sometimes, even without any traces of HE activity, could demonstrate very short and powerful VHE flares cannot be easily accounted in many current AGN models and calls for their further development.
Cosmic rays with energies up to $10^{11}\,\mathrm{GeV}$ enter the atmosphere and produce showers of secondary particles.
Inside these showers muons with high transverse momentum ($p_\mathrm{T} \gtrsim 2\,\mathrm{GeV}$) are produced from the decay of heavy hadrons, or from high $p_\mathrm{T}$ pions and kaons very early in the shower development.
These isolated muons can have large transverse separations from the shower core up to several hundred meters, together with the muon bundle forming a double or triple track signature in IceCube.
The separation from the core is a measure of the transverse momentum of the muon's parent particle.
Assuming the validity of perturbative quantum chromodynamics (pQCD) the muon lateral distribution depends on the composition of the incident nuclei, thus the composition of high energy cosmic rays can be determined from muon separation measurements.
Vice versa these muons can help to understand uncertainties due to phenomenological models as well as test pQCD predictions of high energy interactions involving heavy nuclei.
After introducing the physics scenario of high $p_\mathrm{T}$ muons in kilometer-scale neutrino telescopes we will review results from IceCube in its 59-string configuration as starting point and discuss recent studies on composition using laterally separated muons in the final detector configuration.
Very high energy (VHE) gamma-rays have been detected from the direction of the Galactic center.
Cherenkov telescopes have located this gamma-ray source with a preliminary position uncertainty of 8.5" per axis (6" statistic + 6" sytematic per axis).
Within the uncertainty region several possible counterpart candidates exist: the Super Massive Black Hole Sgr A*, the Pulsar Wind Nebula candidate G359.95-0.04, the Low Mass X-Ray Binary-system J174540.0-290031, the stellar cluster IRS 13, as well as self-annihilating dark matter.
It is experimentally very challenging to further improve the positional accuracy in this energy range and therefore, it may not be possible to clearly associate one of the counterpart candidates with the VHE-source.
Here, we present a new method to investigate a possible link of the VHE-source with the near environment of Sgr A* (within approximately 1000 Schwarzschild radii).
This method uses the time- and energy-dependent effect of absorption of gamma-rays by pair-production (in the following named pair-eclipse) with low-energy photons of stars closely orbiting the SMBH Sgr A*.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, community containment measures have been implemented in different parts of the world.
However, despite government recommendations and mandates, a progressive increase in mobility was observed in several sites.
This phenomenon is often referred to as "quarantine fatigue".
Mathematical models have been used for more than a century to study the dynamics of diseases spread.
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, a large number of models have been developed to investigate different aspects of the pandemic.
The aim of the present work has been to design and explore a mathematical model of SARS-CoV-2 spread with quarantine fatigue.
A deterministic model represented by a system of differential equations, based on Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) dynamics, was developed.
The model was explored by means of computational simulations.
The results obtained show that, in some scenarios, after a first prevalence peak, fatigue can cause a second peak.
Thus, the dynamic behavior of the model suggests that fatigue may have contributed to the production of the second peak of infected people observed in different parts of the world between 2020 and early 2021.
The explorations performed also showed that the model is sensitive to infection rate and other parameters related to propagation dynamics.
The developed model is relatively simple and has important limitations for performing accurate predictions in the real world.
However, our study highlights the importance of considering quarantine fatigue in the management of the current COVID-19 pandemic, as well as of possible future pandemics caused by other pathogens.
The purpose of the present experiment was to investigate whether, with vision, the magnitude of the effect of calf muscles fatigue on postural control during bipedal quiet standing depends on the eye-visual target distance.
Twelve young university students were asked to stand upright as immobile as possible in three visual conditions (No vision, Vision 1m and Vision 4m) executed in two conditions of No fatigue and Fatigue of the calf muscles.
Centre of foot pressure displacements were recorded using a force platform.
Similar increased variances of the centre of foot pressure displacements were observed in the fatigue relative to the No fatigue condition for both the No vision and Vision 4m conditions.
Interestingly, in the vision 1m condition, fatigue yielded: (1) a similar increased variance of the centre of foot pressure displacements to those observed in the No vision and Vision 4m conditions along the medio-lateral axis and (2) a weaker destabilising effect relative to the No vision and Vision 4m conditions along the antero-posterior axis.
These results evidence that the ability to use visual information for postural control during bipedal quiet standing following calf muscles fatigue is dependent on the eye-visual target distance.
More largely, in the context of the multisensory control of balance, the present findings suggest that the efficiency of the sensory reweighting of visual sensory cues as the neuro-muscular constraints acting on the subject change is critically linked with the quality of the information the visual system obtains.
Recent progress in pushing the sensitivity of the Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Technique into the 10 mCrab regime has enabled first sensitive observations of the innermost few 100 pc of the Milky Way in Very High Energy (VHE; >100 GeV) gamma rays.
These observations are a valuable tool to understand the acceleration and propagation of energetic particles near the Galactic Centre.
Remarkably, besides two compact gamma-ray sources, faint diffuse gamma-ray emission has been discovered with high significance.
The current VHE gamma-ray view of the Galactic Centre region is reviewed, and possible counterparts of the gamma-ray sources and the origin of the diffuse emission are discussed.
The future prospects for VHE Galactic Centre observations are discussed based on order-of-magnitude estimates for a CTA type array of telescopes.
While researchers have been trying to understand the stress and fatigue among pilots, especially pilot trainees, and to develop stress/fatigue models to automate the process of detecting stress/fatigue, they often do not consider biases such as sex in those models.
However, in a critical profession like aviation, where the demographic distribution is disproportionately skewed to one sex, it is urgent to mitigate biases for fair and safe model predictions.
In this work, we investigate the perceived stress/fatigue of 69 college students, including 40 pilot trainees with around 63% male.
We construct models with decision trees first without bias mitigation and then with bias mitigation using a threshold optimizer with demographic parity and equalized odds constraints 30 times with random instances.
Using bias mitigation, we achieve improvements of 88.31% (demographic parity difference) and 54.26% (equalized odds difference), which are also found to be statistically significant.
Based on current CERN infrastructure, an electron--proton collider is proposed at a centre-of-mass energy of about 9 TeV.
A 7 TeV LHC bunch is used as the proton driver to create a plasma wakefield which then accelerates electrons to 3\,TeV, these then colliding with the other 7 TeV LHC proton beam.
Although of very high energy, the collider has a modest projected integrated luminosity of $10-100$ pb$^{-1}$.
For such a collider, with a centre-of-mass energy 30 times greater than HERA, parton momentum fractions, $x$, down to about $10^{-8}$ are accessible for photon virtualities, $Q^2$, of 1 GeV$^2$.
The energy dependence of hadronic cross sections at high energies, such as the the total photon--proton cross section, which has synergy with cosmic-ray physics, can be measured and QCD and the structure of matter better understood in a region where the effects are completely unknown.
Searches at high $Q^2$ for physics beyond the Standard Model will be possible, in particular the significantly increased sensitivity to the production of leptoquarks.
These and other physics highlights of a very high energy electron--proton collider are outlined.
Functional electrical stimulation (FES) is a prevalent technique commonly used to activate muscles in individuals with neurological disorders.
Traditional FES strategies predominantly utilize low-frequency (LF) stimulation, which evokes synchronous action potentials, leading to rapid muscle fatigue.
To address these limitations, we introduced a subthreshold high-frequency (HF) stimulation method that employed continuous, charge-balanced subthreshold current pulses at kilohertz frequencies, designed to evoke motor unit (MU) activation similar to voluntary activation.
We evaluated the effectiveness of HF stimulation on the reduction of muscle fatigue across different force levels (10 %, 25 %, and 40 % of maximum force).
The HF stimulation utilized continuous charge-balanced, short pulses of 80 μs (at a 10 kHz frequency) targeted the ulnar/median nerve bundles.
We compared the fatigue effects with conventional LF stimulation and voluntary muscle contractions.
Our results indicated that HF stimulation maintained more sustained force outputs and muscle activation over a prolonged time compared with LF stimulation.
The HF stimulation also evoked a more dispersed muscle activation pattern, similar to voluntary muscle contractions.
These findings suggest that HF stimulation can significantly enhance the sustainability of muscle contractions and reduce muscle fatigue, potentially improving the efficacy and applicability of FES in clinical and home-based settings for individuals with neurological impairments.
We illustrate the potential of a very high energy lepton collider (from 10 to 30 TeV center of mass energy) to explore new physics indirectly in the vector boson fusion double Higgs production process and in direct diboson production at high energy.
Double Higgs production is found to be sensitive to the anomalous Higgs trilinear coupling at the percent level, and to the Higgs compositeness $ξ$ parameter at the per mille or sub-per mille level thanks to the measurement of the cross-section in the di-Higgs high invariant mass tail.
High energy diboson (and tri-boson) production is sensitive to Higgs-lepton contact interaction operators at a scale of several tens or hundred TeV, corresponding to a reach on the Higgs compositeness scale well above the one of any other future collider project currently under discussion.
This result follows from the unique capability of the very high energy lepton collider to measure Electroweak cross-sections at 10 TeV energy or more, where the effect of new physics at even higher energy is amplified.
The general lesson is that the standard path towards precision physics, based on measurements of high-statistics processes such as single and double Higgs production, is accompanied at the very high energy lepton collider by a second strategy based on measurements at the highest available energy.
Purpose The purpose of this study was to compare the development and etiology of neuromuscular fatigue of the knee extensor muscles (KE) at different muscle-tendon unit (MTU) lengths during repeated maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) between boys and men.Methods Twenty-two pre-pubertal boys (9-11 years) and 22 men (18-30 years) performed three KE fatigue protocols at short (SHORT), optimal (OPT) and long (LONG) MTU lengths, consisting of repeating 5-s MVIC interspersed with 5-s passive recovery periods until torque reached 60% of the initial MVIC torque.
The etiology of neuromuscular fatigue was identified using non-invasive methods such as surface electromyography, near-infrared spectroscopy, magnetic nerve stimulation and twitch interpolation technique.Results The number of repetitions was significantly lower in men at OPT (14.8$\pm$3.2) and LONG (15.8$\pm$5.8) than boys (39.7$\pm$18.4 and 29.5 $\pm$10.2, respectively; p<0.001), while no difference was found at SHORT between both age groups (boys: 33.7$\pm$15.4, men: 40.9$\pm$14.2).
At OPT and LONG boys showed a lower reduction in the single potentiated twitch (Qtwpot) and a greater decrease in the voluntary activation level (VA) than men.
At SHORT, both populations displayed a moderate Qtwpot decrement and a significant VA reduction (p<0.001).
The differences in maximal torque between boys and men were almost twice greater at OPT (223.9 N.m) than at SHORT (123.3 N.m) and LONG (136.5 N.m).Conclusion The differences in neuromuscular fatigue between children and adults are dependent on MTU length.
Differences in maximal torque could underpin differences in neuromuscular fatigue between children and adults at OPT and SHORT.
However, at LONG these differences do not seem to be explained by differences in maximal torque.
The origins of this specific effect of MTU length remain to be determined.
Whereas the acuity of the position sense at the ankle can be disturbed by muscle fatigue, it recently also has been shown to be improved, under normal ankle neuromuscular state, through the use of an artificial tongue-placed tactile biofeedback.
The underlying principle of this biofeedback consisted of supplying individuals with supplementary information about the position of their matching ankle position relative to their reference ankle position through electrotactile stimulation of the tongue.
Within this context, the purpose of the present experiment was to investigate whether this biofeedback could mitigate the deleterious effect of muscle fatigue on joint position sense at the ankle.
To address this objective, sixteen young healthy university students were asked to perform an active ankle-matching task in two conditions of No-fatigue and Fatigue of the ankle muscles and two conditions of No-biofeedback and Biofeedback.
Measures of the overall accuracy and the variability of the positioning were determined using the absolute error and the variable error, respectively.
Results showed that the availability of the biofeedback allowed the subjects to suppress the deleterious effects of muscle fatigue on joint position sense at the ankle.
In the context of sensory re-weighting process, these findings suggested that the central nervous system was able to integrate and increase the relative contribution of the artificial tongue-placed tactile biofeedback to compensate for a proprioceptive degradation at the ankle.
The increasing availability of a variety of two-dimensional materials has generated enormous growth in the field of nanoengineering and nanomechanics.
Recent developments in thin film synthesis have enabled the fabrication of freestanding functional oxide membranes that can be readily incorporated in nanomechanical devices.
While many oxides are extremely brittle in bulk, recent studies have shown that, in thin membrane form, they can be much more robust to fracture as compared to their bulk counterparts.
Here, we investigate the ultimate tensile strength of SrTiO$_3$ membranes by probing freestanding SrTiO$_3$ drumheads using an atomic force microscope.
We demonstrate that SrTiO$_3$ membranes can withstand an elastic deformation with an average strain of ~6% in the sub-20 nm thickness regime, which is more than an order of magnitude beyond the bulk limit.
We also show that these membranes are highly resilient upon a high cycle fatigue test, surviving up to a billion cycles of force modulation at 85% of their fracture strain, demonstrating their high potential for use in nanomechanical applications.
We prove that the pseudoautomorphism group of a blow-up of $\mathbb{P}^3$ at $8$ very general points is trivial. We also establish the injectivity of the Coble representation associated to blow-ups of $\mathbb{P}^3$ at $r\ge 8$ general points, answering a question of Dolgachev--Ortland.
Wireless Body Area Sensor Network (WBASN) is a technology employed mainly for patient health monitoring.
New research is being done to take the technology to the next level i.e. player's fatigue monitoring in sports.
Muscle fatigue is the main cause of player's performance degradation.
This type of fatigue can be measured by sensing the accumulation of lactic acid in muscles.
Excess of lactic acid makes muscles feel lethargic.
Keeping this in mind we propose a protocol \underline{TH}reshold based \underline{E}nergy-efficient \underline{FA}tigue \underline{ME}asurement (THE-FAME) for soccer players using WBASN.
In THE-FAME protocol, a composite parameter has been used that consists of a threshold parameter for lactic acid accumulation and a parameter for measuring distance covered by a particular player.
When any parameters's value in this composite parameter shows an increase beyond threshold, the players is declared to be in a fatigue state.
The size of battery and sensor should be very small for the sake of players' best performance.
These sensor nodes, implanted inside player's body, are made energy efficient by using multiple sinks instead of a single sink.
Matlab simulation results show the effectiveness of THE-FAME.
We report on first results of an ongoing effort to image a small sample of high-redshift radio galaxies (HzRGs) with milliarcsecond (mas) resolution, using very-long-baseline interferometry (VLBI) techniques.
Here, we present 1.7 and 5.0 GHz VLBA observations of B3 J2330+3927, a radio galaxy at z=3.087.
Those observations, combined with 8.4 GHz VLA-A observations, have helped us interpret the source radio morphology, and most of our results have already been published (Perez-Torres & De Breuck 2005).
In particular, we pinpointed the core of the radio galaxy, and also detected both radio lobes, which have a very asymmetric flux density ratio, R>11.
Contrary to what is seen in other radio galaxies, it is the radio lobe furthest from the nucleus which is the brighest.
Almost all of the Ly-alpha emission is seen between the nucleus and the furthest radio lobe, which is also unlike all other radio galaxies.
The values of radio lobe distance ratio, and flux density ratio, as well as the fraction of core emission make of B3 J2330+3927 an extremely asymmetric source, and challenges unification models that explain the differences between quasars and radio galaxies as due to orientation effects.
Surface roughness is a critical factor influencing the fatigue life of structural components.
Its effect is commonly quantified using a correction coefficient known as the surface factor.
In this paper, a phase field based numerical framework is proposed to estimate the surface factor while accounting for the stochastic nature of surface roughness.
The model is validated against existing experimental data.
Furthermore, we investigate the influence of key parameters on the fatigue life of rough surfaces, such as surface topology and failure strength.
An important effect of surface roughness is observed when the average surface roughness increases and the correlation length of the surface profile decreases.
This effect becomes more pronounced with higher failure strengths.
Steady state visual evoked response (SSVEP) is widely used in visual-based diagnosis and applications such as brain computer interfacing due to its high information transfer rate and the capability to activate commands through simple gaze control.
However, one major impediment in using flashing visual stimulus to obtain SSVEP is eye fatigue that prevents continued long term use preventing practical deployment.
This combined with the difficulty in establishing precise pulse-width modulation (PWM) that results in poorer accuracy warrants the development of appropriate approach to solve these issues.
Various studies have suggested the usage of high frequencies of visual stimulus to reduce the visual fatigue for the user but this results in poor response performance.
Here, the authors study the use of extremely high duty-cycles in the stimulus in the hope of solving these constraints.
Electroencephalogram data was recorded with PWM duty-cycles of 50 to 95% generated by a precise custom-made light-emitting diode hardware and tested ten subjects responded that increasing duty-cycles had less visual strain for all the frequency values and the SSVEP exhibited a subject-independent peak response for duty-cycle of 85%.
This could pave the way for increased usage of SSVEP for practical applications.
This paper introduces a signature-based framework for detecting advertising creative fatigue using path signatures, a geometric representation from rough path theory.
Creative fatigue -- the degradation of creative effectiveness under repeated exposure -- is operationally important in digital marketing because delayed detection can translate directly into avoidable opportunity cost.
We reframe fatigue monitoring as a geometric change detection problem: advertising performance trajectories are embedded as paths and represented by truncated (log-)signatures, enabling detection of changes in trend, volatility, and non-linear dynamics beyond simple mean or variance shifts.
We further connect statistical detection to managerial decision-making via an explicit quantification of performance loss relative to a benchmark period.
Because proprietary production data cannot be released, we evaluate the proposed framework on a synthetic panel dataset designed to mimic realistic impression volumes and noisy day-to-day CTR dynamics.
We define observed CTR as the realised binomial rate $CTR_t := C_t/I_t$ using daily clicks $C_t$ and impressions $I_t$.
The accompanying CSV also contains a pre-computed CTR field (e.g., due to rounding or upstream derivation), but all modelling and evaluation in this paper use $C_t/I_t$.
Crucially, the dataset does not include injected changepoints; we therefore define an operational ground truth for ``fatigue onset'' based on a noise-robust CTR estimate and a sustained deterioration relative to a recent-best baseline.
We report lead-time (early warning) and alert-burden metrics under this operational definition, and provide a sensitivity analysis over the detector's primary tuning parameters.
The methodology scales linearly in time-series length for fixed signature depth and is suitable for monitoring large creative portfolios.
Microquasars are sources of very high-energy gamma-rays and, very probably, high-energy gamma-ray emitters.
We propose a model for a jet that can allow to give accurate observational predictions for jet emission at different energies and provide with physical information of the object using multiwavelength data.
A novel variational framework to model the fatigue behavior of brittle materials based on a phase-field approach to fracture is presented.
The standard regularized free energy functional is modified introducing a fatigue degradation function that effectively reduces the fracture toughness as a proper history variable accumulates.
This macroscopic approach allows to reproduce the main known features of fatigue crack growth in brittle materials.
Numerical experiments show that the Wöhler curve, the crack growth rate curve and the Paris law are naturally recovered, while the approximate Palmgren-Miner criterion and the monotonic loading condition are obtained as special cases.
Low-Mass X-ray Binaries (LMXRBs), believed to be the progenitors of recycled millisecond pulsars (MSPs), occur abundantly in globular clusters (GCs).
GCs are therefore expected to host large numbers of MSPs.
This is also confirmed observationally.
The MSPs continuously inject relativistic electrons into the ambient region beyond their light cylinders, and these relativistic particles produce unpulsed radiation via the synchrotron and inverse Compton (IC) processes.
It is thus possible, in the context of General Relativistic (GR) frame-dragging MSP models, to predict unpulsed very high energy radiation expected from nearby GCs.
We use a period-derivative cleaned sample of MSPs in 47 Tucanae, where the effects of the cluster potential on the individual period derivatives have been removed.
Using a Monte Carlo process to include effects of pulsar geometry, we obtain average injection spectra (with relatively small errors) of particles leaving the MSPs.
These spectra are next used to predict cumulative synchrotron and IC spectra expected from 47 Tucanae, which is a lower limit, as no reacceleration is assumed.
We find that the IC radiation from 47 Tucanae may be visible for H.E.S.S., depending on the nebular field B as well as the number of MSPs N in the GC.
Telescopes such as Chandra and Hubble may find it difficult to test the SR component prediction of diffuse radiation if there are many unresolved sources in the field of view.
These results may be rescaled for other GCs where less information is available, assuming universal GC MSP characteristics.
Fatigue cracks may initiate and propagate long before a structural component reaches the end of its nominal life.
Detecting and quantifying crack growth in real time is critical for avoiding catastrophic failures in aerospace structures, nuclear reactors and civil infrastructure.
This research reviews four widely used crack growth monitoring techniques: digital image correlation (DIC), acoustic emission (AE), compliance based methods and direct current potential drop (DCPD).
The research evaluates their working principles, instrumentation, detection thresholds, noise sensitivities and suitability under various environmental conditions.
Recent advances in high precision control and data acquisition systems (DAQs) that enable multi sensor data fusion are explored.
The goal is to guide selection and integration of monitoring methods in modern structural health monitoring architectures.
Machine learning as a data-driven solution has been widely applied in the field of fatigue lifetime prediction.
In this paper, three models for wideband fatigue life prediction are built based on three machine learning models, i.e. support vector machine (SVM), Gaussian process regression (GPR) and artificial neural network (ANN).
The generalization ability of the models is enhanced by employing numerous power spectra samples with different bandwidth parameters and a variety of material properties related to fatigue life.
Sufficient Monte Carlo numerical simulations demonstrate that the newly developed machine learning models are superior to the traditional frequency-domain models in terms of life prediction accuracy and the ANN model has the best overall performance among the three developed machine learning models.
Due to traits of CMOS compatibility and scalability, HfO2-based ferroelectrics are promising candidates for next-generation memory devices.
However, their commercialization has been greatly hindered by reliability issues, with fatigue being a major impediment.
We report the fatigue-free behavior in interface-designed Hf0.5Zr0.5O2-based heterostructures.
A coherent CeO2-x/Hf0.5Zr0.5O2 heterointerface is constructed, wherein CeO2-x acts as an oxygen sponge, capable of reversibly accepting and releasing oxygen vacancies.
This design effectively alleviates defect aggregation at the electrode-ferroelectric interface, enabling improved switching characteristics.
Further, a symmetric capacitor architecture is designed to minimize the imprint, thereby suppressing the cycling-induced oriented defect drift.
The two-pronged technique mitigates oxygen-voltammetry-generated chemical/energy fluctuations, suppressing the formation of paraelectric phase and polarization degradation.
The design ensures a fatigue-free feature exceeding 10^11 switching cycles and an endurance lifetime surpassing 10^12 cycles for Hf0.5Zr0.5O2-based capacitors, along with excellent temperature stability and retention.
These findings pave the way for developing ultra-stable hafnia-based ferroelectric devices.
This study centers on overcoming the challenge of selecting the best annotators for each query in Active Learning (AL), with the objective of minimizing misclassifications.
AL recognizes the challenges related to cost and time when acquiring labeled data, and decreases the number of labeled data needed.
Nevertheless, there is still the necessity to reduce annotation errors, aiming to be as efficient as possible, to achieve the expected accuracy faster.
Most strategies for query-annotator pairs do not consider internal factors that affect productivity, such as mood, attention, motivation, and fatigue levels.
This work addresses this gap in the existing literature, by not only considering how the internal factors influence annotators (mood and fatigue levels) but also presenting a new query-annotator pair strategy, using a Knowledge-Based Recommendation System (RS).
The RS ranks the available annotators, allowing to choose one or more to label the queried instance using their past accuracy values, and their mood and fatigue levels, as well as information about the instance queried.
This work bases itself on existing literature on mood and fatigue influence on human performance, simulating annotators in a realistic manner, and predicting their performance with the RS.
The results show that considering past accuracy values, as well as mood and fatigue levels reduces the number of annotation errors made by the annotators, and the uncertainty of the model through its training, when compared to not using internal factors.
Accuracy and F1-score values were also better in the proposed approach, despite not being as substantial as the aforementioned.
The methodologies and findings presented in this study begin to explore the open challenge of human cognitive factors affecting AL.
Automation technique has been widely used in manufacturing industry, but there are still manual handling operations required in assembly and maintenance work in industry.
Inappropriate posture and physical fatigue might result in musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in such physical jobs.
In ergonomics and occupational biomechanics, virtual human modelling techniques have been employed to design and optimize the manual operations in design stage so as to avoid or decrease potential MSD risks.
In these methods, physical fatigue is only considered as minimizing the muscle or joint stress, and the fatigue effect along time for the posture is not considered enough.
In this study, based on the existing methods and multiple objective optimisation method (MOO), a new posture prediction and analysis method is proposed for predicting the optimal posture and evaluating the physical fatigue in the manual handling operation.
The posture prediction and analysis problem is mathematically described and a special application case is demonstrated for analyzing a drilling assembly operation in European Aeronautic Defence & Space Company (EADS) in this paper.
In this work various methods and algorithms for face and eyes detection are examined in order to decide which of them are applicable for use in a driver fatigue monitoring system.
In the case of face detection the standard Viola-Jones face detector has shown best results, while the method of finding the eye centers by means of gradients has proven to be most appropriate in the case of eyes detection.
The later method has also a potential for retrieving behavioral parameters needed for estimation of the level of driver fatigue.
This possibility will be examined in future work.
The fractional power-law material behavior has been investigated within the framework of a modified mean field theory, in which high-temperature structure precursors in a crystalline or polycrystalline material are treated as a partially ordered liquid over a wide range of temperature.
By doing so, the relaxation behavior of the material can be studied via a modified Landau-Khalatnikov equation.
It then becomes clear that, as the special cases of the fractional power-law behavior, seemingly quite different fatigue phenomena and physical deterioration are governed by a fundamental physical phenomenon, i.e., the competition between ordered structures and partially ordered high-temperature structure precursors during a series of atomic relaxation processes.
Several studies have found significant increase in the fatigue strength of welded joints of structural steels at sub-zero temperatures.
This study addresses the research by investigating the applicability of local fatigue assessment methods to welded joints exposed to sub-zero temperatures.
For this purpose, fatigue test results of two fillet weld details with weld toe and weld root failure are evaluated at a range of temperatures using a variety of structural hot-spot and notch stress approaches, then are compared to the nominal stress approach.
Large differences in prediction accuracy are found for the analysed assessment methods and both failure locations.
We review recent development in Raman techniques and diamond anvil cell technology, that allow measurements of Raman of metals in the megabar pressure range.
The Raman technique includes holographic transmission optics and single-stage spectrographs with CCD array detectors.
Use of synthetic high-purity diamonds and anglular excitation geometry reduces spurious background scattering substantially, which makes observable very weak Raman peaks in metals.
We give several examples of studies including the hexagonal close packed (hcp) $ε$-Fe, Fe$_{(1-x)}$Ni${_x}$, and Re and the recently discovered high-temperature superconductor MgB$_2$.
The shift of phonon modes with pressure is used for determination of the mode-Grüneisen parameters, estimation of shear elastic moduli and provide information on structural and electronic transitions.
Changes and advances in information technology have played an important role in the development of intelligent vehicle systems in recent years.
Driver fatigue and distracted driving are important factors in traffic accidents.
Thus, onboard monitoring of driving behavior has become a crucial component of advanced driver assistance systems for intelligent vehicles.
In this article, we present techniques for simultaneously detecting fatigue and distracted driving behaviors using vision-based and machine learning-based approaches.
In driving fatigue detection, we use facial alignment networks to identify facial feature points in the images, and calculate the distance of the facial feature points to detect the opening and closing of the eyes and mouth.
Furthermore, we use a convolutional neural network (CNN) based on the MobileNet architecture to identify various distracted driving behaviors.
Experiments are performed on a PC based setup with a webcam and results are demonstrated using public datasets as well as custom datasets created for training and testing.
Compared to previous approaches, we build our own datasets and provide better results in terms of accuracy and computation time.
A common challenge in home-based rehabilitation is muscle compensation induced by pain or fatigue, where patients with weakened primary muscles recruit secondary muscle groups to assist their movement, causing issues such as delayed rehabilitation progress or risk of further injury.
In a home-based setting, the subtle compensatory actions may not be perceived since physiotherapists cannot directly observe patients.
To address this problem, this study develops a novel wearable strain sensor-based shoulder patch to detect fatigue-induced muscle compensation during bicep curl exercises.
Built on an observation that the amplitude of a strain sensor's resistance is correlated to the motion of a joint that the sensor is attached to, we develop an algorithm that can robustly detect the state when significant changes appear in the shoulder joint motion, which indicates fatigue-induced muscle compensation in bicep curls.
The developed shoulder patch is tested on 13 subjects who perform bicep curl exercises with a 5 kg dumbbell until reaching fatigue.
During the experiment, the performance of the shoulder patch is also benchmarked with optical tracking sensors and surface electromyography (sEMG) sensors.
Results reveal that the proposed wearable sensor and detection methods effectively monitor fatigue-induced muscle compensation during bicep curl exercises in both Real-Time and Post Hoc modes.
This development marks a significant step toward enhancing the effectiveness of home-based rehabilitation by providing physiotherapists with a tool to monitor and adjust treatment plans remotely.
PKS 2155-304 is a blazar located in the Southern Hemisphere, monitored with the High Energy Stereoscopic System (H.E.S.S.) at very high energy (VHE, E>100 GeV) $γ$ rays every year since 2002.
Thanks to the large data set collected in the VHE range and simultaneous coverage in optical, ultraviolet (UV), X-ray and high energy $γ$-ray ranges, this object is an excellent laboratory to study spectral and temporal variability in blazars.
However, despite many years of dense monitoring, the nature of the variability observed in PKS 2155-304 remains puzzling.
In this paper, we discuss the complex spectral and temporal variability observed in PKS 2155-304.
The data discussed include VHE $γ$-ray data collected with H.E.S.S. between 2013 and 2016, complemented with multiwavelength (MWL) observations from Fermi-LAT, Swift-XRT, Swift-UVOT, SMARTS, and the ATOM telescope.
During the period of monitoring, PKS 2155-304 was transitioning from its lower state to the flaring states, and exhibiting different flavors of outbursts.
For the first time, orphan optical flare lasting a few months was observed.
Correlation studies show an indication of correlation between the X-ray and VHE $γ$-ray fluxes.
Interestingly, a comparison of optical and X-ray or VHE $γ$-ray fluxes does not show global correlation.
However, two distinct tracks in the diagram were found, which correspond to the different flaring activity states of PKS 2155-304.
In this paper, we explore different deep learning based approaches to detect driver fatigue.
Drowsy driving results in approximately 72,000 crashes and 44,000 injuries every year in the US and detecting drowsiness and alerting the driver can save many lives.
There have been many approaches to detect fatigue, of which eye closedness detection is one.
We propose a framework to detect eye closedness in a captured camera frame as a gateway for detecting drowsiness.
We explore two different datasets to detect eye closedness.
We develop an eye model by using new Eye-blink dataset and a face model by using the Closed Eyes in the Wild (CEW).
We also explore different techniques to make the models more robust by adding noise.
We achieve 95.84% accuracy on our eye model and 80.01% accuracy on our face model.
We also see that we can improve our accuracy on the face model by 6% via adversarial training and data augmentation.
We hope that our work will be useful to the field of driver fatigue detection to avoid potential vehicle accidents related to drowsy driving.
It has been proposed that the successful inflationary description of density perturbations on cosmological scales is sensitive to the details of physics at extremely high (trans-Planckian) energies.
We test this proposal by examining how inflationary predictions depend on higher-energy scales within a simple model where the higher-energy physics is well understood.
We find the best of all possible worlds: inflationary predictions are robust against the vast majority of high-energy effects, but can be sensitive to some effects in certain circumstances, in a way which does not violate ordinary notions of decoupling.
This implies both that the comparison of inflationary predictions with CMB data is meaningful, and that it is also worth searching for small deviations from the standard results in the hopes of learning about very high energies.
Automated Driving System (ADS) has attracted increasing attention from both industrial and academic communities due to its potential for increasing the safety, mobility and efficiency of existing transportation systems.
The state-of-the-art ADS follows the human-in-the-loop (HITL) design, where the driver's anomalous behaviour is closely monitored by the system.
Though many approaches have been proposed for detecting driver fatigue, they largely depend on vehicle driving parameters and facial features, which lacks reliability.
Approaches using physiological based sensors (e.g., electroencephalogram or electrocardiogram) are either too clumsy to wear or impractical to install.
In this paper, we propose a novel driver fatigue detection method by embedding surface electromyography (sEMG) sensors on a steering wheel.
Compared with the existing methods, our approach is able to collect bio-signals in a non-intrusive way and detect driver fatigue at an earlier stage.
The experimental results show that our approach outperforms existing methods with the weighted average F1 scores about 90%.
We also propose promising future directions to deploy this approach in real-life settings, such as applying multimodal learning using several supplementary sensors.
We present the database of potential targets for the Large Interferometer For Exoplanets (LIFE), a space-based mid-infrared nulling interferometer mission proposed for the Voyage 2050 science program of the European Space Agency (ESA).
The database features stars, their planets and disks, main astrophysical parameters, and ancillary observations.
It allows users to create target lists based on various criteria to predict, for instance, exoplanet detection yields for the LIFE mission.
As such, it enables mission design trade-offs, provides context for the analysis of data obtained by LIFE, and flags critical missing data.
Work on the database is in progress, but given its relevance to LIFE and other space missions, including the Habitable Worlds Observatory (HWO), we present its main features here.
A preliminary version of the LIFE database is publicly available on the German Astrophysical Virtual Observatory (GAVO).
The Large Interferometer For Exoplanets (LIFE) initiative is developing the science and a technology roadmap for an ambitious space mission featuring a space-based mid-infrared (MIR) nulling interferometer in order to detect the thermal emission of hundreds of exoplanets and characterize their atmospheres.
In order to quantify the science potential of such a mission, in particular in the context of technical trade-offs, an instrument simulator is required.
In addition, signal extraction algorithms are needed to verify that exoplanet properties (e.g., angular separation, spectral flux) contained in simulated exoplanet datasets can be accurately retrieved.
We present LIFEsim, a software tool developed for simulating observations of exoplanetary systems with an MIR space-based nulling interferometer.
It includes astrophysical noise sources (i.e., stellar leakage and thermal emission from local zodiacal and exo-zodiacal dust) and offers the flexibility to include instrumental noise terms in the future.
LIFEsim provides an accessible way for predicting the expected SNR of future observations as a function of various key instrument and target parameters.
The SNRs of the extracted spectra are photon-noise dominated, as expected from our current simulations.
From single epoch observations in our mock survey of small ($R < 1.5 R_\mathrm{Earth}$) planets orbiting within the habitable zones of their stars, we find that typical uncertainties in the estimated effective temperature of the exoplanets are $\lesssim$10%, for the exoplanet radius $\lesssim$20%, and for the separation from the host star $\lesssim$2%.
SNR values obtained in the signal extraction process deviate less than 10% from purely photon-counting statistics based SNRs.
Life is a planetary feature that depends on its environment, but it has also strongly shaped the physical conditions on Earth, having created conditions highly suitable for a productive biosphere.
Clearly, the second law of thermodynamics must apply to these dynamics as well, but how?
What insights can we gain by placing life and its effects on planetary functioning in the context of the second law?
In Kleidon (2010), I described a thermodynamic Earth system perspective by placing the functioning of the Earth system in terms of the second law.
The Earth system is represented by a planetary hierarchy of energy transformations that are driven predominantly by incoming solar radiation, these transformations are constrained by the second law, but they are also modified by the feedbacks from various dissipative activities.
It was then hypothesised that life evolves its dissipative activity to the limits imposed by this hierarchy and evolves feedbacks aimed at pushing these limits to higher levels of dissipative activity.
Here I provide an update of this perspective.
I first review applications to climate and global climate change to demonstrate its success in predicting magnitudes of physical processes, particularly regarding temperatures, heat redistribution and hydrological cycling.
I then focus on the limits to dissipative activity of the biosphere.
It would seem that the limitations by thermodynamics act indirectly by imposing limitations associated with transport and material exchange.
I substantiate this interpretation and discuss the broader implications for habitability, the emergence and evolution of life, and the contemporary biosphere.
We tackle the problem of estimating flow between two images with large lighting variations.
Recent learning-based flow estimation frameworks have shown remarkable performance on image pairs with small displacement and constant illuminations, but cannot work well on cases with large viewpoint change and lighting variations because of the lack of pixel-wise flow annotations for such cases.
We observe that via the Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques, one can easily estimate relative camera poses between image pairs with large viewpoint change and lighting variations.
We propose a novel weakly supervised framework LIFE to train a neural network for estimating accurate lighting-invariant flows between image pairs.
Sparse correspondences are conventionally established via feature matching with descriptors encoding local image contents.
However, local image contents are inevitably ambiguous and error-prone during the cross-image feature matching process, which hinders downstream tasks.
We propose to guide feature matching with the flows predicted by LIFE, which addresses the ambiguous matching by utilizing abundant context information in the image pairs.
We show that LIFE outperforms previous flow learning frameworks by large margins in challenging scenarios, consistently improves feature matching, and benefits downstream tasks.
There are two dominant and contrasting classes of origin of life scenarios: those predicting that life emerged in submarine hydrothermal systems, where chemical disequilibrium can provide an energy source for nascent life; and those predicting that life emerged within subaerial environments, where UV catalysis of reactions may occur to form the building blocks of life.
Here, we describe a prebiotically plausible environment that draws on the strengths of both scenarios: surface hydrothermal vents.
We show how key feedstock molecules for prebiotic chemistry can be produced in abundance in shallow and surficial hydrothermal systems.
We calculate the chemistry of volcanic gases feeding these vents over a range of pressures and basalt C/N/O contents.
If ultra-reducing carbon-rich nitrogen-rich gases interact with subsurface water at a volcanic vent they result in 1 mM to 1 M concentrations of diacetylene, acetylene, cyanoacetylene, hydrogen cyanide, bisulfite, hydrogen sulfide and soluble iron in vent water.
One key feedstock molecule, cyanamide, is not formed in significant quantities within this scenario, suggesting that it may need to be delivered exogenously, or formed from hydrogen cyanide either via organometallic compounds, or by some as yet-unknown chemical synthesis.
Given the likely ubiquity of surface hydrothermal vents on young, hot, terrestrial planets, these results identify a prebiotically plausible local geochemical environment, which is also amenable to future lab-based simulation.
I show that exoplanets can be used to test origins scenarios.
Origins scenarios start with certain initial conditions, proceed via a network of chemical reactions and, if successful, result in a chemistry that is closer to a living system than the initial conditions.
Exoplanet environments can be applied to test each of these three aspects of origins scenarios.
I show what tests can be applied to the UV-driven cyanosulfidic scenario and how the application of some of these tests has already falsified certain versions of this scenario.
Testing initial conditions has replaced certain reactants with others and has affected the overall chemical network underlying the cyanosulfidic scenario.
The sequence of reactions the scenario invokes provide a predicted upper limit on the ubiquity of life in the universe that has ample room for improvement.
The outcome of the experiments in different environments is part of a predicted distribution of biosignature detections that can be compared to future observed distributions.
This paper presents the hierarchical generalized linear model (HGLM) for loss reserving in a non-life insurance company.
Because in this case the error of prediction is expressed by a complex analytical formula, the error bootstrap estimator is proposed instead.
Moreover, the bootstrap procedure is used to obtain full information about the error by applying quantiles of the absolute prediction error.
The full R code is available on the Github https://github.com/woali/BootErrorLossReserveHGLM.
Accurate prediction of remaining useful life under creep conditions is essential for the structural reliability of high-temperature components in critical engineering systems.
Traditional approaches based on deterministic parametric models often overlook the substantial variability inherent in experimental data, compromising the accuracy and robustness of long-term predictions.
This study introduces a probabilistic framework to quantify uncertainties in creep rupture time prediction.
Robust regression techniques are first applied to mitigate the influence of outliers and enhance the stability of model estimates.
Global sensitivity analysis using Sobol indices is then employed to identify the dominant contributors to model uncertainty, followed by Monte Carlo simulations to propagate these uncertainties and estimate the distribution of the remaining useful life.
Finally, model selection is guided by statistical criteria, including the Akaike and Bayesian information criteria, to identify the most reliable predictive model.
The proposed framework not only enables the definition of safe operational limits with quantifiable confidence levels but is also general and extensible to other time-dependent degradation phenomena, such as fatigue and creep-fatigue interaction.
One of the long-term goals of exoplanet science is the atmospheric characterization of dozens of small exoplanets in order to understand their diversity and search for habitable worlds and potential biosignatures.
Achieving this goal requires a space mission of sufficient scale.
We seek to quantify the exoplanet detection performance of a space-based mid-infrared nulling interferometer that measures the thermal emission of exoplanets.
For this, we have developed an instrument simulator that considers all major astrophysical noise sources and coupled it with Monte Carlo simulations of a synthetic exoplanet population around main-sequence stars within 20 pc.
This allows us to quantify the number (and types) of exoplanets that our mission concept could detect over a certain time period.
Two different scenarios to distribute the observing time among the stellar targets are discussed and different apertures sizes and wavelength ranges are considered.
Within a 2.5-year initial search phase, an interferometer consisting of four 2 m apertures with a total instrument throughput of 5% covering a wavelength range between 4 and 18.5 $μ$m could detect up to ~550 exoplanets with radii between 0.5 and 6 R$_\oplus$ with an integrated SNR$\ge$7.
At least ~160 of the detected exoplanets have radii $\le$1.5 R$_\oplus$.
Depending on the observing scenario, ~25-45 rocky exoplanets (objects with radii between 0.5 and 1.5 $_{\oplus}$) orbiting within the empirical habitable zone (eHZ) of their host stars are among the detections.
With an aperture size of 3.5 m, the total number of detections can increase to up to ~770, including ~60-80 rocky, eHZ planets.
With 1 m aperture size, the maximum detection yield is ~315 exoplanets, including $\le$20 rocky, eHZ planets.
In terms of predicted detection yield, such a mission can compete with large single-aperture reflected light missions.
The origin of life might be sparked by the polymerization of the first RNA molecules in Darwinian ponds during wet-dry cycles.
The key life-building block ribose was found in carbonaceous chondrites.
Its exogenous delivery onto the Hadean Earth could be a crucial step toward the emergence of the RNA world.
Here, we investigate the formation of ribose through a simplified version of the formose reaction inside carbonaceous chondrite parent bodies.
Following up on our previous studies regarding nucleobases with the same coupled physico-chemical model, we calculate the abundance of ribose within planetesimals of different sizes and heating histories.
We perform laboratory experiments using catalysts present in carbonaceous chondrites to infer the yield of ribose among all pentoses (5Cs) forming during the formose reaction.
These laboratory yields are used to tune our theoretical model that can only predict the total abundance of 5Cs.
We found that the calculated abundances of ribose were similar to the ones measured in carbonaceous chondrites.
We discuss the possibilities of chemical decomposition and preservation of ribose and derived constraints on time and location in planetesimals.
In conclusion, the aqueous formose reaction might produce most of the ribose in carbonaceous chondrites.
Together with our previous studies on nucleobases, we found that life-building blocks of the RNA world could be synthesized inside parent bodies and later delivered onto the early Earth.
Why are life trajectories difficult to predict?
We investigated this question through in-depth qualitative interviews with 40 families sampled from a multi-decade longitudinal study.
Our sampling and interviewing process were informed by the earlier efforts of hundreds of researchers to predict life outcomes for participants in this study.
The qualitative evidence we uncovered in these interviews combined with a well-known mathematical decomposition of prediction error helps us identify some origins of unpredictability and create a new conceptual framework.
Our specific evidence and our more general framework suggest that unpredictability should be expected in many life trajectory prediction tasks, even in the presence of complex algorithms and large datasets.
Our work also provides a foundation for future empirical and theoretical work on unpredictability in human lives.
According to the "hard-steps" model, the origin of humanity required "successful passage through a number of intermediate steps" (so-called "hard" or "critical" steps) that were intrinsically improbable with respect to the total time available for biological evolution on Earth.
This model similarly predicts that technological life analogous to human life on Earth is "exceedingly rare" in the universe.
Here, we critically reevaluate the core assumptions of the hard-steps model in light of recent advances in the Earth and life sciences.
Specifically, we advance a potential alternative model where there are no hard steps, and evolutionary novelties (or singularities) required for human origins can be explained via mechanisms outside of intrinsic improbability.
Furthermore, if Earth's surface environment was initially inhospitable not only to human life, but also to certain key intermediate steps in human evolution (e.g., the origin of eukaryotic cells, multicellular animals), then the "delay" in the appearance of humans can be best explained through the sequential opening of new global environmental windows of habitability over Earth history, with humanity arising relatively quickly once the right conditions were established.
In this co-evolutionary (or geobiological) scenario, humans did not evolve "early" or "late" with respect to the total lifespan of the biosphere, but "on time."
Battery cycle life prediction using early degradation data has many potential applications throughout the battery product life cycle.
For that reason, various data-driven methods have been proposed for point prediction of battery cycle life with minimum knowledge of the battery degradation mechanisms.
However, managing the rapidly increasing amounts of batteries at end-of-life with lower economic and technical risk requires prediction of cycle life with quantified uncertainty, which is still lacking.
The interpretability (i.e., the reason for high prediction accuracy) of these advanced data-driven methods is also worthy of investigation.
Here, a Quantile Regression Forest (QRF) model, having the advantage of not assuming any specific distribution of cycle life, is introduced to make cycle life range prediction with uncertainty quantified as the width of the prediction interval, in addition to point predictions with high accuracy.
The hyperparameters of the QRF model are optimized with a proposed alpha-logistic-weighted criterion so that the coverage probabilities associated with the prediction intervals are calibrated.
The interpretability of the final QRF model is explored with two global model-agnostic methods, namely permutation importance and partial dependence plot.
Design-build bridge contracts often include long-term service life requirements, but there are no clear technical guidelines or standardized methods to achieve or verify these goals.
While durability practices are commonly applied, they lack quantitative validation.
With many aging bridges and limited financial resources, accurately estimating remaining service life is essential for prioritizing repair and rehabilitation needs.
This research reviews current practices and recent advancements in bridge service life prediction, providing practical guidance for evaluating and extending the lifespan of both existing and new structures.
The findings support more efficient use of maintenance funds, better understanding of deterioration models and inspection methods, and informed strategies to ensure long-term structural performance.
Efficient and accurate remaining useful life prediction is a key factor for reliable and safe usage of lithium-ion batteries.
This work trains a long short-term memory recurrent neural network model to learn from sequential data of discharge capacities at various cycles and voltages and to work as a cycle life predictor for battery cells cycled under different conditions.
Using experimental data of first 60 - 80 cycles, our model achieves promising prediction accuracy on test sets of around 80 samples.
Predictive business process monitoring aims at providing predictions about running instances by analyzing logs of completed cases in a business process.
Recently, a lot of research focuses on increasing productivity and efficiency in a business process by forecasting potential problems during its executions.
However, most of the studies lack suggesting concrete actions to improve the process.
They leave it up to the subjective judgment of a user.
In this paper, we propose a novel method to connect the results from predictive business process monitoring to actual business process improvements.
More in detail, we optimize the resource allocation in a non-clairvoyant online environment, where we have limited information required for scheduling, by exploiting the predictions.
The proposed method integrates the offline prediction model construction that predicts the processing time and the next activity of an ongoing instance using Bayesian Neural Networks (BNNs) with the online resource allocation that is extended from the minimum cost and maximum flow algorithm.
To validate the proposed method, we performed experiments using an artificial event log and a real-life event log from a global financial organization.
Most biomolecules occur in mirror, or chiral, images of each other.
However, life is homochiral: proteins contain almost exclusively levorotatory (L) amino acids, while only dextrorotatory (R) sugars appear in RNA and DNA.
The mechanism behind this fundamental asymmetry of life remains an open problem.
Coupling the spatiotemporal evolution of a general autocatalytic polymerization reaction network to external environmental effects, we show through a detailed statistical analysis that high intensity and long duration events may drive achiral initial conditions towards chirality.
We argue that life's homochirality resulted from sequential chiral symmetry breaking triggered by environmental events, thus extending the theory of punctuated equilibrium to the prebiotic realm.
Applying our arguments to other potentially life-bearing planetary platforms, we predict that a statistically representative sampling will be racemic on average.
Early prediction of battery cycle life is essential for improving battery design, manufacturing, and deployment.
However, despite encouraging results with machine learning, progress remains constrained by scarce data and data heterogeneity across battery chemistries, specifications, formation protocols, and operating conditions.
Although transfer learning has been widely explored to alleviate these challenges, its effectiveness is constrained by the lack of a foundation model that can capture broadly transferable knowledge from diverse battery life data.
This gap persists because integration of heterogeneous battery datasets under data scarcity is inherently challenging.
Here we introduce the pretrained battery transformer (PBT), a foundation model for battery life prediction that incorporates battery-knowledge-encoded mixture-of-experts layers to learn transferable representations from heterogeneous data.
PBT is pretrained on 13 lithium-ion battery datasets and subsequently adapted to downstream battery life prediction tasks through transfer learning.
Across 15 datasets covering 977 batteries and 533 sets of aging conditions from lithium-ion, sodium-ion and zinc-ion batteries, PBT achieves state-of-the-art performance, surpassing the strongest competing method by 21.8% on average, with gains of up to 86.9%.
Our study establishes the first foundation model for battery life prediction and provides a scalable route towards universal battery lifetime prediction systems, with broader implications for other scientific and technological domains characterized by scarce and heterogeneous data.
Predictive modeling plays key role in providing accurate prognosis and enables us to take a step closer to personalized treatment.
We identified two potential sources of human induced biases that can lead to disparate conclusions.
We illustrate through a complex phenotype that robust results can still be drawn after accounting for such biases.
Often predictive models build based in high dimensional data suffers from the drawback of lack of interpretability.
To achieve interpretability in the form of description of the organism level phenomena in term of molecular or cellular level activities, functional and pathway information is often augmented.
Functional information can greatly facilitate the interpretation of the results of the predictive model.
However an important aspect of (vertical) data augmentation is routinely ignored, that is there could be several stages of analysis where such information could be meaningfully integrated.
There is no know criteria to enable us to assess the effect of such augmentation.
A novel aspect of the proposed work is in exploring possibilities of stages of analysis where functional information may be incorporated and in assessing the extent to which the ultimate conclusions would differ depending on level of amalgamation.
To boost our confidence on the key findings a first level of meta-analysis is done by exploring different levels of data augmentation.
This is followed by comparison of predictive models across different definitions of the same phenotype developed by different groups, which is also an extended form of meta-analysis.
We have used real life data on a complex phenotype to illustrate the above.
The data pertains to Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) and another novel aspect of the current work is in modeling the underlying continuous symptom measurements for CFS, which is the first for this disease to our knowledge.
Early prediction of remaining useful life (RUL) is crucial for effective battery management across various industries, ranging from household appliances to large-scale applications.
Accurate RUL prediction improves the reliability and maintainability of battery technology.
However, existing methods have limitations, including assumptions of data from the same sensors or distribution, foreknowledge of the end of life (EOL), and neglect to determine the first prediction cycle (FPC) to identify the start of the unhealthy stage.
This paper proposes a novel method for RUL prediction of Lithium-ion batteries.
The proposed framework comprises two stages: determining the FPC using a neural network-based model to divide the degradation data into distinct health states and predicting the degradation pattern after the FPC to estimate the remaining useful life as a percentage.
Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms conventional approaches in terms of RUL prediction.
Furthermore, the proposed method shows promise for real-world scenarios, providing improved accuracy and applicability for battery management.
Smartphones and smartphone apps have undergone an explosive growth in the past decade.
However, smartphone battery technology hasn't been able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the capacity and the functionality of smartphones and apps.
As a result, battery has always been a bottleneck of a user's daily experience of smartphones.
An accurate estimation of the remaining battery life could tremendously help the user to schedule their activities and use their smartphones more efficiently.
Existing studies on battery life prediction have been primitive due to the lack of real-world smartphone usage data at scale.
This paper presents a novel method that uses the state-of-the-art machine learning models for battery life prediction, based on comprehensive and real-time usage traces collected from smartphones.
The proposed method is the first that identifies and addresses the severe data missing problem in this context, using a principled statistical metric called the concordance index.
The method is evaluated using a dataset collected from 51 users for 21 months, which covers comprehensive and fine-grained smartphone usage traces including system status, sensor indicators, system events, and app status.
We find that the remaining battery life of a smartphone can be accurately predicted based on how the user uses the device at the real-time, in the current session, and in history.
The machine learning models successfully identify predictive features for battery life and their applicable scenarios.
We have simulated demographic changes in the human population using the Penna microscopic model, based on the simple Monte Carlo method.
The results of simulations have shown that during a few generations changes in the genetic pool of a population are negligible, while improving the methods of compensation of genetic defects or genetically determined proneness to many disorders drastically affects the average life span of organisms.
Age distribution and mortality of the simulated populations correspond very well to real demographic data available from different countries.
Basing on the comparison of structures of real human populations and the results of simulations it is possible to predict changes in the age structure of populations in the future.
In the framework of the engineering version of a Local approach to fracture the criterion of a fracture limit of RPV with crack-like flaw is derived.
It has been shown that the level of ductile state stability (mechanical stability) of metal ahead of a crack governs the value of critical fluence.
On this basis, the new paradigm of life-time prediction using the condition of exhaustion of mechanical stability of irradiated PV metal has been proposed.
The technique of an end-of-life fluence assessment is developed, and predictive capabilities of this approach are demonstrated by the example of WWER-1000 pressure vessels
Life satisfaction is a crucial facet of human well-being.
Hence, research on life satisfaction is incumbent for understanding how individuals experience their lives and influencing interventions targeted at enhancing mental health and well-being.
Life satisfaction has traditionally been measured using analog, complicated, and frequently error-prone methods.
These methods raise questions concerning validation and propagation.
However, this study demonstrates the potential for machine learning algorithms to predict life satisfaction with a high accuracy of 93.80% and a 73.00% macro F1-score.
The dataset comes from a government survey of 19000 people aged 16-64 years in Denmark.
Using feature learning techniques, 27 significant questions for assessing contentment were extracted, making the study highly reproducible, simple, and easily interpretable.
Furthermore, clinical and biomedical large language models (LLMs) were explored for predicting life satisfaction by converting tabular data into natural language sentences through mapping and adding meaningful counterparts, achieving an accuracy of 93.74% and macro F1-score of 73.21%.
It was found that life satisfaction prediction is more closely related to the biomedical domain than the clinical domain.
Ablation studies were also conducted to understand the impact of data resampling and feature selection techniques on model performance.
Moreover, the correlation between primary determinants with different age brackets was analyzed, and it was found that health condition is the most important determinant across all ages.
This study demonstrates how machine learning, large language models and XAI can jointly contribute to building trust and understanding in using AI to investigate human behavior, with significant ramifications for academics and professionals working to quantify and comprehend subjective well-being.
A novel mechanistic approach is proposed for the prediction of the life of thermal barrier coating (TBC) systems.
The life prediction methodology is based on a criterion linked directly to the dominant failure mechanism.
It relies on a statistical treatment of the TBC's morphological characteristics, non-destructive stress measurements and on a continuum mechanics framework to quantify the stresses that promote the nucleation and growth of microcracks within the TBC.
The last of these accounts for the effects of TBC constituents' elasto-visco-plastic properties, the stiffening of the ceramic due to sintering and the oxidation at the interface between the thermally insulating yttria stabilized zirconia (YSZ) layer and the metallic bond coat. The mechanistic approach is used to investigate the effects on TBC life of the properties and morphology of the top YSZ coating, metallic low-pressure plasma sprayed bond coat and the thermally grown oxide.
Its calibration is based on TBC damage inferred from non-destructive fluorescence measurements using piezo-spectroscopy and on the numerically predicted local TBC stresses responsible for the initiation of such damage.
The potential applicability of the methodology to other types of TBC coatings and thermal loading conditions is also discussed.
Multivariate time series (MTS) prediction is ubiquitous in real-world fields, but MTS data often contains missing values.
In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in using end-to-end models to handle MTS with missing values.
To generate features for prediction, existing methods either merge all input dimensions of MTS or tackle each input dimension independently.
However, both approaches are hard to perform well because the former usually produce many unreliable features and the latter lacks correlated information.
In this paper, we propose a Learning Individual Features (LIFE) framework, which provides a new paradigm for MTS prediction with missing values.
LIFE generates reliable features for prediction by using the correlated dimensions as auxiliary information and suppressing the interference from uncorrelated dimensions with missing values.
Experiments on three real-world data sets verify the superiority of LIFE to existing state-of-the-art models.
Batteries are dynamic systems with complicated nonlinear aging, highly dependent on cell design, chemistry, manufacturing, and operational conditions.
Prediction of battery cycle life and estimation of aging states is important to accelerate battery R&D, testing, and to further the understanding of how batteries degrade.
Beyond testing, battery management systems rely on real-time models and onboard diagnostics and prognostics for safe operation.
Estimating the state of health and remaining useful life of a battery is important to optimize performance and use resources optimally.
This tutorial begins with an overview of first-principles, machine learning, and hybrid battery models.
Then, a typical pipeline for the development of interpretable machine learning models is explained and showcased for cycle life prediction from laboratory testing data.
We highlight the challenges of machine learning models, motivating the incorporation of physics in hybrid modeling approaches, which are needed to decipher the aging trajectory of batteries but require more data and further work on the physics of battery degradation.
The tutorial closes with a discussion on generalization and further research directions.
The theory of cometary panspermia, developed by the late Sir Fred Hoyle and the present author argues that life originated cosmically as a unique event in one of a great multitude of comets or planetary bodies in the Universe.
Life on Earth did not originate here but was introduced by impacting comets, and its further evolution was driven by the subsequent acquisition of cosmically derived genes.
Explicit predictions of this theory published in 1979-1981, stating how the acquisition of new genes drives evolution, are compared with recent developments in relation to horizontal gene transfer, and the role of retroviruses in evolution.
Precisely-stated predictions of the theory of cometary panspermia are shown to have been verified.
Prediction of the remaining life of high-voltage power transformers is an important issue for energy companies because of the need for planning maintenance and capital expenditures.
Lifetime data for such transformers are complicated because transformer lifetimes can extend over many decades and transformer designs and manufacturing practices have evolved.
We were asked to develop statistically-based predictions for the lifetimes of an energy company's fleet of high-voltage transmission and distribution transformers.
The company's data records begin in 1980, providing information on installation and failure dates of transformers.
Although the dataset contains many units that were installed before 1980, there is no information about units that were installed and failed before 1980.
Thus, the data are left truncated and right censored.
We use a parametric lifetime model to describe the lifetime distribution of individual transformers.
We develop a statistical procedure, based on age-adjusted life distributions, for computing a prediction interval for remaining life for individual transformers now in service.
We then extend these ideas to provide predictions and prediction intervals for the cumulative number of failures, over a range of time, for the overall fleet of transformers.
The application of remaining useful life (RUL) prediction has taken great importance in terms of energy optimization, cost-effectiveness, and risk mitigation.
The existing RUL prediction algorithms mostly constitute deep learning frameworks.
In this paper, we implement LSTM and GRU models and compare the obtained results with a proposed genetically trained neural network.
The current models solely depend on Adam and SGD for optimization and learning.
Although the models have worked well with these optimizers, even little uncertainties in prognostics prediction can result in huge losses.
We hope to improve the consistency of the predictions by adding another layer of optimization using Genetic Algorithms.
The hyper-parameters - learning rate and batch size are optimized beyond manual capacity.
These models and the proposed architecture are tested on the NASA Turbofan Jet Engine dataset.
The optimized architecture can predict the given hyper-parameters autonomously and provide superior results.
This study develops a methodology by capturing both the battery aging state and degradation rate for improved life prediction performance.
The aging state is indicated by six physical features of an equivalent circuit model that are extracted from the voltage relaxation data.
And the degradation rate is captured by two features extracted from the differences between the voltage relaxation curves within a moving window (for life prediction), or the differences between the capacity vs. voltage curves at different cycles (for life classification).
Two machine learning models, which are constructed based on Gaussian Processes, are used to describe the relationships between these physical features and battery lifetimes for the life prediction and classification, respectively.
The methodology is validated with the aging data of 74 battery cells of three different types.
Experimental results show that based on only 3-12 minutes' sampling data, the method with novel features predicts accurate battery lifetimes, with the prediction accuracy improved by up to 67.09% compared with the benchmark method.
And the batteries are classified into three groups (long, medium, and short) with an overall accuracy larger than 90% based on only two adjacent cycles' information, enabling the highly efficient regrouping of retired batteries.
Amino acids are the essential keys that contribute to the study of the formation of life.
The simplest amino acid, glycine (NH$_{2}$CH$_{2}$COOH), has been searched for a long time in the interstellar medium, but all surveys of glycine have failed.
Since the detection of glycine in the interstellar medium was extremely difficult, we aimed to search for the precursor of glycine.
After detailed searches of the individual prebiotic molecular species, we successfully identified the emission lines of possible glycine precursor molecule amino acetonitrile (NH$_{2}$CH$_{2}$CN) towards the hot molecular core G10.47+0.03 using the Atacama Large Millimeter/Submillimeter Array.
We estimated the statistical column density of amino acetonitrile was (9.10$\pm$0.7)$\times$10$^{15}$ cm$^{-2}$ with rotational temperature ($T_{rot}$) 122$\pm$8.8 K.
The estimated fractional abundance of amino acetonitrile was 7.01$\times$10$^{-8}$.
We found that the estimated fractional abundance of NH$_{2}$CH$_{2}$CN fairly agrees with the theoretical value predicted by the three-phase warm-up model from Garrod (2013).
Internet of Things (IoT) and related applications have successfully contributed towards enhancing the value of life in this planet.
The advanced wireless sensor networks and its revolutionary computational capabilities have enabled various IoT applications become the next frontier, touching almost all domains of life.
With this enormous progress, energy optimization has also become a primary concern with the need to attend to green technologies.
The present study focuses on the predictions pertinent to the sustainability of battery life in IoT frameworks in the marine environment.
The data used is a publicly available dataset collected from the Chicago district beach water.
Firstly, the missing values in the data are replaced with the attribute mean.
Later, one-hot encoding technique is applied for achieving data homogeneity followed by the standard scalar technique to normalize the data.
Then, rough set theory is used for feature extraction, and the resultant data is fed into a Deep Neural Network (DNN) model for the optimized prediction results.
The proposed model is then compared with the state of the art machine learning models and the results justify its superiority on the basis of performance metrics such as Mean Squared Error, Mean Absolute Error, Root Mean Squared Error, and Test Variance Score.
This paper explores the behavior of systems of cold fermions as they approach unitarity above the critical temperature.
As we move away from unitarity, by decreasing the scattering length, the dilaton, the Goldstone boson resulting from the spontaneous breaking of Schrodinger symmetry by the Fermi sea, becomes gapped.
At energies below this gap, the interaction between quasi-particles will be dominated by local interactions generated by off-shell dilaton exchange.
The dilaton mass can, in turn, be related via anomaly matching, to the scattering length and contact parameter within the confines of a systematic expansion.
We use this relation to predict the s-wave Landau parameter to be $f=\frac{4πa (2ε(p_F)-p_F^2/m_\star)^2 m}{3p_F^4 \tilde{C}(a)}$ where $a$ is the scattering length, $m$ the atomic mass, $m_\star$, the effective mass which can be extracted from heat capacity, and $\tilde {C}(a)$ is the dimensionless contact parameter.
The range of validity of this prediction (given in eq.(21)) is determined by the value of contact parameter and Fermi velocity, which depend upon the scattering length.
It is expected to be valid in a range above $k_F a \sim 1$, but the actual window will depend upon the values of aforementioned parameters.
Given this result for $f$, we predict the compressibility, spin susceptibility and the quasi-particle life-time.
Ubiquitous use of lithium-ion batteries across multiple industries presents an opportunity to explore cost saving initiatives as the price to performance ratio continually decreases in a competitive environment.
Manufacturers using lithium-ion batteries ranging in applications from mobile phones to electric vehicles need to know how long batteries will last for a given service life.
To understand this, expensive testing is required.
This paper utilizes the data and methods implemented by Kristen A.
Severson, et al, to explore the methodologies that the research team used and presents another method to compare predicted results vs. actual test data for battery capacity fade.
The fundamental effort is to find out if machine learning techniques may be trained to use early life cycle data in order to accurately predict battery capacity over the battery life cycle.
Results show comparison of methods between Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) and Elastic Net Regression (ENR) and highlight key data features used from the extensive dataset found in the work of Severson, et al.
A hybrid prognostic model based on convolutional neural networks (CNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM) is proposed to predict the laser remaining useful life (RUL).
The experimental results show that it outperforms the conventional methods.
Cellular phones are now offering an ubiquitous means for scientists to observe life: how people act, move and respond to external influences.
They can be utilized as measurement devices of individual persons and for groups of people of the social context and the related interactions.
The picture of human life that emerges shows complexity, which is manifested in such data in properties of the spatiotemporal tracks of individuals.
We extract from smartphone-based data for a set of persons important locations such as "home", "work" and so forth over fixed length time-slots covering the days in the data-set.
This set of typical places is heavy-tailed, a power-law distribution with an exponent close to -1.7.
To analyze the regularities and stochastic features present, the days are classified for each person into regular, personal patterns.
To this are superimposed fluctuations for each day.
This randomness is measured by "life" entropy, computed both before and after finding the clustering so as to subtract the contribution of a number of patterns.
The main issue, that we then address, is how predictable individuals are in their mobility.
The patterns and entropy are reflected in the predictability of the mobility of the life both individually and on average.
We explore the simple approaches to guess the location from the typical behavior, and of exploiting the transition probabilities with time from location or activity A to B.
The patterns allow an enhanced predictability, at least up to a few hours into the future from the current location.
Such fixed habits are most clearly visible in the working-day length.
Prognostic and Health Management (PHM) are crucial ways to avoid unnecessary maintenance for Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and improve system reliability.
Predicting the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) is one of the most challenging tasks for PHM.
Existing methods require prior knowledge about the system, contrived assumptions, or temporal mining to model the life cycles of machine equipment/devices, resulting in diminished accuracy and limited applicability in real-world scenarios.
This paper proposes a Bi-directional Adversarial network with Covariate Encoding for machine Remaining Useful Life (BACE-RUL) prediction, which only adopts sensor measurements from the current life cycle to predict RUL rather than relying on previous consecutive cycle recordings.
The current sensor measurements of mechanical devices are encoded to a conditional space to better understand the implicit inner mechanical status.
The predictor is trained as a conditional generative network with the encoded sensor measurements as its conditions.
Various experiments on several real-world datasets, including the turbofan aircraft engine dataset and the dataset collected from degradation experiments of Li-Ion battery cells, show that the proposed model is a general framework and outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
Battery Life Prediction (BLP), which relies on time series data produced by battery degradation tests, is crucial for battery utilization, optimization, and production.
Despite impressive advancements, this research area faces three key challenges.
Firstly, the limited size of existing datasets impedes insights into modern battery life data.
Secondly, most datasets are restricted to small-capacity lithium-ion batteries tested under a narrow range of diversity in labs, raising concerns about the generalizability of findings.
Thirdly, inconsistent and limited benchmarks across studies obscure the effectiveness of baselines and leave it unclear if models popular in other time series fields are effective for BLP.
To address these challenges, we propose BatteryLife, a comprehensive dataset and benchmark for BLP.
BatteryLife integrates 16 datasets, offering a 2.5 times sample size compared to the previous largest dataset, and provides the most diverse battery life resource with batteries from 8 formats, 59 chemical systems, 9 operating temperatures, and 421 charge/discharge protocols, including both laboratory and industrial tests.
Notably, BatteryLife is the first to release battery life datasets of zinc-ion batteries, sodium-ion batteries, and industry-tested large-capacity lithium-ion batteries.
With the comprehensive dataset, we revisit the effectiveness of baselines popular in this and other time series fields.
Furthermore, we propose CyclePatch, a plug-in technique that can be employed in various neural networks.
Extensive benchmarking of 18 methods reveals that models popular in other time series fields can be unsuitable for BLP, and CyclePatch consistently improves model performance establishing state-of-the-art benchmarks.
Moreover, BatteryLife evaluates model performance across aging conditions and domains.
BatteryLife is available at https://github.com/Ruifeng-Tan/BatteryLife.
Accurately estimating the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) of a battery is essential for determining its lifespan and recharge requirements.
In this work, we develop machine learning-based models to predict and classify battery RUL.
We introduce a two-level ensemble learning (TLE) framework and a CNN+MLP hybrid model for RUL prediction, comparing their performance against traditional, deep, and hybrid machine learning models.
Our analysis evaluates various models for both prediction and classification while incorporating interpretability through SHAP.
The proposed TLE model consistently outperforms baseline models in RMSE, MAE, and R squared error, demonstrating its superior predictive capabilities.
Additionally, the XGBoost classifier achieves an impressive 99% classification accuracy, validated through cross-validation techniques.
The models effectively predict relay-based charging triggers, enabling automated and energy-efficient charging processes.
This automation reduces energy consumption and enhances battery performance by optimizing charging cycles.
SHAP interpretability analysis highlights the cycle index and charging parameters as the most critical factors influencing RUL.
To improve accessibility, we developed a Tkinter-based GUI that allows users to input new data and predict RUL in real time.
This practical solution supports sustainable battery management by enabling data-driven decisions about battery usage and maintenance, contributing to energy-efficient and innovative battery life prediction.
We present a novel theory of the microstructure of deep neural networks.
Using a theoretical framework called statistical teleodynamics, which is a conceptual synthesis of statistical thermodynamics and potential game theory, we predict that all highly connected layers of deep neural networks have a universal microstructure of connection strengths that is distributed lognormally ($LN(μ, σ)$).
Furthermore, under ideal conditions, the theory predicts that $μ$ and $σ$ are the same for all layers in all networks.
This is shown to be the result of an arbitrage equilibrium where all connections compete and contribute the same effective utility towards the minimization of the overall loss function.
These surprising predictions are shown to be supported by empirical data from six large-scale deep neural networks in real life.
We also discuss how these results can be exploited to reduce the amount of data, time, and computational resources needed to train large deep neural networks.
Optimization of the formation step in lithium-ion battery manufacturing is challenging due to limited physical understanding of solid electrolyte interphase formation and the long testing time (~100 days) for cells to reach the end of life.
We propose a systematic feature design framework that requires minimal domain knowledge for accurate cycle life prediction during formation.
Two simple Q(V) features designed from our framework, extracted from formation data without any additional diagnostic cycles, achieved a median of 9.20% error for cycle life prediction, outperforming thousands of autoML models using pre-defined features.
We attribute the strong performance of our designed features to their physical origins - the voltage ranges identified by our framework capture the effects of formation temperature and microscopic particle resistance heterogeneity.
By designing highly interpretable features, our approach can accelerate formation research, leveraging the interplay between data-driven feature design and mechanistic understanding.
The rate of fatigue crack growth in Nickle superalloys is a critical factor of safety in the aerospace industry.
A machine learning approach is chosen to predict the fatigue crack growth rate as a function of the material composition, material properties and environmental conditions.
Random forests and neural network frameworks are used to develop two different models and compare the two results.
Both the frameworks give good predictions with $r^2$ of 0.9687 for random forest and 0.9831 for neural network.
Driving fatigue is a major contributor to traffic accidents and poses a serious threat to road safety.
Electroencephalography (EEG) provides a direct measurement of neural activity, yet EEG-based fatigue recognition is hindered by strong non-stationarity and asymmetric neural dynamics.
To address these challenges, we propose DeltaGateNet, a novel framework that explicitly captures Bidirectional temporal dynamics for EEG-based driving fatigue recognition.
Our key idea is to introduce a Bidirectional Delta module that decomposes first-order temporal differences into positive and negative components, enabling explicit modeling of asymmetric neural activation and suppression patterns.
Furthermore, we design a Gated Temporal Convolution module to capture long-term temporal dependencies for each EEG channel using depthwise temporal convolutions and residual learning, preserving channel-wise specificity while enhancing temporal representation robustness.
Extensive experiments conducted under both intra-subject and inter-subject evaluation settings on the public SEED-VIG and SADT driving fatigue datasets demonstrate that DeltaGateNet consistently outperforms existing methods.
On SEED-VIG, DeltaGateNet achieves an intra-subject accuracy of 81.89% and an inter-subject accuracy of 55.55%.
On the balanced SADT 2022 dataset, it attains intra-subject and inter-subject accuracies of 96.81% and 83.21%, respectively, while on the unbalanced SADT 2952 dataset, it achieves 96.84% intra-subject and 84.49% inter-subject accuracy.
These results indicate that explicitly modeling Bidirectional temporal dynamics yields robust and generalizable performance under varying subject and class-distribution conditions.
Hypergraphs are data structures capable of capturing supra-dyadic relations.
We can use them to model binary relations, but also to model groups of entities, as well as the intersections between these groups or the contained subgroups.
In previous work, we explored the usage of hypergraphs as an indexing data structure, in particular one that was capable of seamlessly integrating text, entities and their relations to support entity-oriented search tasks.
As more information is added to the hypergraph, however, it not only increases in size, but it also becomes denser, making the task of efficiently ranking nodes or hyperedges more complex.
Random walks can effectively capture network structure, without compromising performance, or at least providing a tunable balance between efficiency and effectiveness, within a nondeterministic universe.
For a higher effectiveness, a higher number of random walks is usually required, which often results in lower efficiency.
Inspired by von Neumann and the neuron in the brain, we propose and study the usage of node and hyperedge fatigue as a way to temporarily constrict random walks during keyword-based ad hoc retrieval. We found that we were able to improve search time by a factor of 32, but also worsen MAP by a factor of 8.
Moreover, by distinguishing between fatigue in nodes and hyperedges, we are able to find that, for hyperedge ranking tasks, we consistently obtained lower MAP scores when increasing fatigue for nodes.
On the other hand, the overall impact of hyperedge fatigue was slightly positive, although it also slightly worsened efficiency.
Rotating machinery is essential to modern life, from power generation to transportation and a host of other industrial applications.
Since such equipment generally operates under challenging working conditions, which can lead to untimely failures, accurate remaining useful life (RUL) prediction is essential for maintenance planning and to prevent catastrophic failures.
In this work, we address current challenges in data-driven RUL prediction for rotating machinery.
The challenges revolve around the accuracy and uncertainty quantification of the prediction, and the non-stationarity of the system degradation and RUL estimation given sensor data.
We devise a novel architecture and RUL prediction model with uncertainty quantification, termed VisPro, which integrates time-frequency analysis, deep learning image recognition, and nonstationary Gaussian process regression.
We analyze and benchmark the results obtained with our model against those of other advanced data-driven RUL prediction models for rotating machinery using the PHM12 bearing vibration dataset.
The computational experiments show that (1) the VisPro predictions are highly accurate and provide significant improvements over existing prediction models (three times more accurate than the second-best model), and (2) the RUL uncertainty bounds are valid and informative.
We identify and discuss the architectural and modeling choices made that explain this excellent predictive performance of VisPro.
A core part of maintenance planning is a monitoring system that provides a good prognosis on health and degradation, often expressed as remaining useful life (RUL).
Most of the current data-driven approaches for RUL prediction focus on single-point prediction.
These point prediction approaches do not include the probabilistic nature of the failure.
The few probabilistic approaches to date either include the aleatoric uncertainty (which originates from the system), or the epistemic uncertainty (which originates from the model parameters), or both simultaneously as a total uncertainty.
Here, we propose ensemble neural networks for probabilistic RUL predictions which considers both uncertainties and decouples these two uncertainties.
These decoupled uncertainties are vital in knowing and interpreting the confidence of the predictions.
This method is tested on NASA's turbofan jet engine CMAPSS data-set.
Our results show how these uncertainties can be modeled and how to disentangle the contribution of aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty.
Additionally, our approach is evaluated on different metrics and compared against the current state-of-the-art methods.
In the era of industrial big data, prognostics and health management is essential to improve the prediction of future failures to minimize inventory, maintenance, and human costs.
Used for the 2021 PHM Data Challenge, the new Commercial Modular Aero-Propulsion System Simulation dataset from NASA is an open-source benchmark containing simulated turbofan engine units flown under realistic flight conditions.
Deep learning approaches implemented previously for this application attempt to predict the remaining useful life of the engine units, but have not utilized labeled failure mode information, impeding practical usage and explainability.
To address these limitations, a new prognostics approach is formulated with a customized loss function to simultaneously predict the current health state, the eventual failing component(s), and the remaining useful life.
The proposed method incorporates principal component analysis to orthogonalize statistical time-domain features, which are inputs into supervised regressors such as random forests, extreme random forests, XGBoost, and artificial neural networks.
The highest performing algorithm, ANN-Flux, achieves AUROC and AUPR scores exceeding 0.95 for each classification.
In addition, ANN-Flux reduces the remaining useful life RMSE by 38% for the same test split of the dataset compared to past work, with significantly less computational cost.
Service life prediction is of great importance to manufacturers of coatings and other polymeric materials.
Photodegradation, driven primarily by ultraviolet (UV) radiation, is the primary cause of failure for organic paints and coatings, as well as many other products made from polymeric materials exposed to sunlight.
Traditional methods of service life prediction involve the use of outdoor exposure in harsh UV environments (e.g., Florida and Arizona).
Such tests, however, require too much time (generally many years) to do an evaluation.
Non-scientific attempts to simply "speed up the clock" result in incorrect predictions.
This paper describes the statistical methods that were developed for a scientifically-based approach to using laboratory accelerated tests to produce timely predictions of outdoor service life.
The approach involves careful experimentation and identifying a physics/chemistry-motivated model that will adequately describe photodegradation paths of polymeric materials.
The model incorporates the effects of explanatory variables UV spectrum, UV intensity, temperature, and humidity.
We use a nonlinear mixed-effects model to describe the sample paths.
The methods are illustrated with accelerated laboratory test data for a model epoxy coating.
The validity of the methodology is checked by extending our model to allow for dynamic covariates and comparing predictions with specimens that were exposed in an outdoor environment where the explanatory variables are uncontrolled but recorded.
The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of plantar-flexor muscles fatigue on postural control during quiet standing under normal, altered and improved vestibular and neck somatosensory conditions.
To address this objective, young male university students were asked to stand upright as still as possible with their eyes closed in two conditions of No Fatigue and Fatigue of the plantar-flexor muscles.
In Experiment 1 (n=15), the postural task was executed in two Neutral head and Head tilted backward postures, recognized to degrade vestibular and neck somatosensory information.
In Experiment 2 (n=15), the postural task was executed in two conditions of No tactile and Tactile stimulation of the neck provided by the application of strips of adhesive bandage to the skin over and around the neck.
Results showed that (1) the Fatigue condition yielded increased CoP displacements relative to the No Fatigue condition (Experiment 1 and Experiment 2), (2) this destabilizing effect was more accentuated in the Head tilted backward posture than Neutral head posture (Experiment 1) and (3) this destabilizing effect was less accentuated in the condition of Tactile stimulation than that of No tactile stimulation of the neck (Experiment 2).
In the context of the multisensory control of balance, these results suggest an increased reliance on vestibular and neck somatosensory information for controlling posture during quiet standing in condition of altered ankle neuromuscular function.
This study uses a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network to predict the remaining useful life (RUL) of jet engines from time-series data, crucial for aircraft maintenance and safety.
The LSTM model's performance is compared with a Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) on the C-MAPSS dataset from NASA, which contains jet engine run-to-failure events.
The LSTM learns from temporal sequences of sensor data, while the MLP learns from static data snapshots.
The LSTM model consistently outperforms the MLP in prediction accuracy, demonstrating its superior ability to capture temporal dependencies in jet engine degradation patterns.
The software for this project is in https://github.com/AneesPeringal/rul-prediction.git.
This research delves into the development of a fatigue detection system based on modern object detection algorithms, particularly YOLO (You Only Look Once) models, including YOLOv5, YOLOv6, YOLOv7, and YOLOv8.
By comparing the performance of these models, we evaluate their effectiveness in real-time detection of fatigue-related behavior in drivers.
The study addresses challenges like environmental variability and detection accuracy and suggests a roadmap for enhancing real-time detection.
Experimental results demonstrate that YOLOv8 offers superior performance, balancing accuracy with speed.
Data augmentation techniques and model optimization have been key in enhancing system adaptability to various driving conditions.
Demographers rely on a variety of tools and methods to work with mortality schedules - model life tables, fitting methods, summary-indicator prediction, and forecasting - largely developed independently and not providing structurally coherent sex-specific outputs.
The multi-dimensional mortality model (MDMx) unifies all four within one Tucker tensor decomposition demonstrated using the Human Mortality Database (HMD).
Period life tables from the HMD are organized as a four-way tensor of logit(1qx) indexed by sex, age, country, and year.
Shared factor matrices for sex and age make every output schedule structurally coherent by construction.
From this decomposition four capabilities emerge: model life tables via clustering and smooth within-regime trajectories; life table fitting via a three-stage algorithm with Bayes-factor disruption detection; summary-indicator prediction mapping child or adult mortality to complete schedules, reformulating SVD-Comp in tensor coordinates; and forecasting via a damped local linear trend Kalman filter on PCA-reduced core matrices with hierarchical drift.
Recently Liu et al. (Acta Mater., 2020) proposed a new divide-and-conquer based machine learning method for predicting creep life of superalloys.
The idea is enlightening though, the prediction accuracy and intelligence remain to be improved.
In the present work, we modify the method by adding a dimensionality reduction algorithm before the clustering step and introducing a grid search algorithm to the regression model selection step.
As a consequence, the clustering result becomes much more desirable and the accuracy of predicted creep life is dramatically improved.
The root-mean-square error, mean-absolute-percentage error and relevant coefficient of the original method are 0.2341, 0.0595 and 0.9121, while those of the modified method are 0.0285, 0.0196, and 0.9806, respectively.
Moreover, the ad-hoc determination of hyperparameters in the original method is replaced by automated determination of hyperparameters in the modified method, which considerably improves the intelligence of the method.
Prediction of a machine's Remaining Useful Life (RUL) is one of the key tasks in predictive maintenance.
The task is treated as a regression problem where Machine Learning (ML) algorithms are used to predict the RUL of machine components.
These ML algorithms are generally used as a black box with a total focus on the performance without identifying the potential causes behind the algorithms' decisions and their working mechanism.
We believe, the performance (in terms of Mean Squared Error (MSE), etc.,) alone is not enough to build the trust of the stakeholders in ML prediction rather more insights on the causes behind the predictions are needed.
To this aim, in this paper, we explore the potential of Explainable AI (XAI) techniques by proposing an explainable regression framework for the prediction of machines' RUL.
We also evaluate several ML algorithms including classical and Neural Networks (NNs) based solutions for the task.
For the explanations, we rely on two model agnostic XAI methods namely Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic Explanations (LIME) and Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP).
We believe, this work will provide a baseline for future research in the domain.
A modified version of panspermia theory, named Nebula-Relay hypothesis or local panspermia, is introduced to explain the origin of life on Earth.
Primitive life, acting as the seeds of life on Earth, originated at pre-solar epoch through physicochemical processes and then filled in the pre-solar nebula after the death of pre-solar star.
Then the history of life on the Earth can be divided into three epochs: the formation of primitive life in the pre-solar epoch; pre-solar nebula epoch; the formation of solar system and the Earth age of life.
The main prediction of our model is that primitive life existed in the pre-solar nebula (even in the current nebulas) and the celestial body formed therein (i.e. solar system).
The prediction of system responses for a given fatigue test bench drive signal is a challenging task, for which linear frequency response function models are commonly used.
To account for non-linear phenomena, a novel hybrid model is suggested, which augments existing approaches using Long Short-Term Memory networks.
Additional virtual sensing applications of this method are demonstrated.
The approach is tested using non-linear experimental data from a servo-hydraulic test rig and this dataset is made publicly available.
A variety of metrics in time and frequency domains, as well as fatigue strength under variable amplitudes, are employed in the evaluation.
We present an intelligent wearable system to monitor and predict mood states of elderly people during their daily life activities.
Our system is composed of a wristband to record different physiological activities together with a mobile app for ecological momentary assessment (EMA).
Machine learning is used to train a classifier to automatically predict different mood states based on the smart band only.
Our approach shows promising results on mood accuracy and provides results comparable with the state of the art in the specific detection of happiness and activeness.
The present study focused on the effects of trunk extensor muscles fatigue on postural control during quiet standing under different somatosensory conditions from the foot and the ankle.
With this aim, 20 young healthy adults were asked to stand as immobile as possible in two conditions of No fatigue and Fatigue of trunk extensor muscles.
In Experiment 1 (n = 10), somatosensation from the foot and the ankle was degraded by standing on a foam surface.
In Experiment 2 (n = 10), somatosensation from the foot and ankle was facilitated through the increased cutaneous feedback at the foot and ankle provided by strips of athletic tape applied across both ankle joints.
The centre of foot pressure displacements (CoP) were recorded using a force platform.
The results showed that (1) trunk extensor muscles fatigue increased CoP displacements under normal somatosensatory conditions (Experiment 1 and Experiment 2), (2) this destabilizing effect was exacerbated when somatosensation from the foot and the ankle was degraded (Experiment 1), and (3) this destabilizing effect was mitigated when somatosensation from the foot and the ankle was facilitated (Experiment 2).
Altogether, the present findings evidenced re-weighting of sensory cues for controlling posture during quiet standing following trunk extensor muscles fatigue by increasing the reliance on the somatosensory inputs from the foot and the ankle.
This could have implications in clinical and rehabilitative areas.
Fatigue detection using physiological signals is critical in domains such as transportation, healthcare, and performance monitoring.
While most studies focus on single modalities, this work examines statistical relationships between signal pairs to improve classification robustness.
Using the DROZY dataset, we extracted features from ECG, EMG, EOG, and EEG across 15 signal combinations and evaluated them with Decision Tree, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, and XGBoost.
Results show that XGBoost with the EMG EEG combination achieved the best performance.
SHAP analysis highlighted ECG EOG correlation as a key feature, and multi signal models consistently outperformed single signal ones.
These findings demonstrate that feature level fusion of physiological signals enhances accuracy, interpretability, and practical applicability of fatigue monitoring systems.
Lithium-ion batteries are widely used in various applications, including electric vehicles and renewable energy storage.
The prediction of the remaining useful life (RUL) of batteries is crucial for ensuring reliable and efficient operation, as well as reducing maintenance costs.
However, determining the life cycle of batteries in real-world scenarios is challenging, and existing methods have limitations in predicting the number of cycles iteratively.
In addition, existing works often oversimplify the datasets, neglecting important features of the batteries such as temperature, internal resistance, and material type.
To address these limitations, this paper proposes a two-stage RUL prediction scheme for Lithium-ion batteries using a spatio-temporal multimodal attention network (ST-MAN).
The proposed ST-MAN is to capture the complex spatio-temporal dependencies in the battery data, including the features that are often neglected in existing works.
Despite operating without prior knowledge of end-of-life (EOL) events, our method consistently achieves lower error rates, boasting mean absolute error (MAE) and mean square error (MSE) of 0.0275 and 0.0014, respectively, compared to existing convolutional neural networks (CNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM)-based methods.
The proposed method has the potential to improve the reliability and efficiency of battery operations and is applicable in various industries.
The surface electromyography (sEMG) analysis can provide information on muscle fatigue status by estimation of muscle fibre conduction velocity (MFCV), a measure of the travelling speed of motor unit action potentials in muscle tissue.
This paper proposes a technique for MFCV estimation using cross-correlation methods and variable bitstream modulation.
The technique displays an estimate based on a set of data generated by the gain variation modulation, providing an average estimate of the MFCV.
The observed trend of MFCV decrease correlates with the fatigue state of the observed muscle.
Finally, the values found were compared with information from the literature, validating the method and showing the advantages of using variable modulation.
This paper concerns the use of neural networks for predicting the residual life of machines and components.
In addition, the advantage of using condition-monitoring data to enhance the predictive capability of these neural networks was also investigated.
A number of neural network variations were trained and tested with the data of two different reliability-related datasets.
The first dataset represents the renewal case where the failed unit is repaired and restored to a good-as-new condition.
Data was collected in the laboratory by subjecting a series of similar test pieces to fatigue loading with a hydraulic actuator.
The average prediction error of the various neural networks being compared varied from 431 to 841 seconds on this dataset, where test pieces had a characteristic life of 8,971 seconds.
The second dataset was collected from a group of pumps used to circulate a water and magnetite solution within a plant.
The data therefore originated from a repaired system affected by reliability degradation.
When optimized, the multi-layer perceptron neural networks trained with the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm and the general regression neural network produced a sum-of-squares error within 11.1% of each other.
The potential for using neural networks for residual life prediction and the advantage of incorporating condition-based data into the model were proven for both examples.
The study of origins of life on Earth and the search for life on other planets are closely linked.
Prebiotic chemical scenarios can help prioritize planets as targets for the search for life as we know it and can provide informative priors to help us assess the likelihood that particular spectroscopic features are evidence of life.
The prerequisites for origins scenarios themselves predict spectral signatures.
The interplay between origins research and the search for extraterrestrial life must start with lab work guiding exploratory ventures in the solar system, and the discoveries in the solar system informing future exoplanet observations and laboratory research.
Subsequent exoplanet research will in turn provide statistical context to conclusions about the nature and origins of life.
Accurately predicting the remaining useful life (RUL) of rotating machinery, such as bearings, is essential for ensuring equipment reliability and minimizing unexpected industrial failures.
Traditional data-driven deep learning methods face challenges in practical settings due to inconsistent training and testing data distributions and limited generalization for long-term predictions.
Due to the varying intensity of pavement cracks, the complexity of topological structure, and the noise of texture background, image classification for asphalt pavement cracking has proven to be a challenging problem.
Fatigue cracking, also known as alligator cracking, is one of the common distresses of asphalt pavement.
It is thus important to detect and monitor the condition of alligator cracking on roadway pavements.
Most research in this area has typically focused on pixel-level detection of cracking using limited datasets.
A novel deep convolutional neural network that can achieve two objectives is proposed.
The first objective of the proposed neural network is to classify presence of fatigue cracking based on pavement surface images.
The second objective is to classify the fatigue cracking severity level based on the Distress Identification Manual (DIM) standard.
In this paper, a databank of 4484 high-resolution pavement surface images is established in which images are taken locally in the Town of Blacksburg, Virginia, USA.
In the data pre-preparation, over 4000 images are labeled into 4 categories manually according to DIM standards.
A four-layer convolutional neural network model is then built to achieve the goal of classification of images by pavement crack severity category.
The trained model reached the highest accuracy among all existing methods.
After only 30 epochs of training, the model achieved a crack existence classification accuracy of 96.23% and a severity level classification accuracy of 96.74%.
After 20 epochs of training, the model achieved a pavement marking presence classification accuracy of 97.64%.
In recent times, Large Language Models (LLMs) have captured a global spotlight and revolutionized the field of Natural Language Processing.
One of the factors attributed to the effectiveness of LLMs is the model architecture used for training, transformers.
Transformer models excel at capturing contextual features in sequential data since time series data are sequential, transformer models can be leveraged for more efficient time series data prediction.
The field of prognostics is vital to system health management and proper maintenance planning.
A reliable estimation of the remaining useful life (RUL) of machines holds the potential for substantial cost savings.
This includes avoiding abrupt machine failures, maximizing equipment usage, and serving as a decision support system (DSS).
This work proposed an encoder-transformer architecture-based framework for multivariate time series prediction for a prognostics use case.
We validated the effectiveness of the proposed framework on all four sets of the C-MAPPS benchmark dataset for the remaining useful life prediction task.
To effectively transfer the knowledge and application of transformers from the natural language domain to time series, three model-specific experiments were conducted.
Also, to enable the model awareness of the initial stages of the machine life and its degradation path, a novel expanding window method was proposed for the first time in this work, it was compared with the sliding window method, and it led to a large improvement in the performance of the encoder transformer model.
Finally, the performance of the proposed encoder-transformer model was evaluated on the test dataset and compared with the results from 13 other state-of-the-art (SOTA) models in the literature and it outperformed them all with an average performance increase of 137.65% over the next best model across all the datasets.
Accurately measuring the cycle lifetime of commercial lithium-ion batteries is crucial for performance and technology development.
We introduce a novel hybrid approach combining a physics-based equation with a self-attention model to predict the cycle lifetimes of commercial lithium iron phosphate graphite cells via early-cycle data.
After fitting capacity loss curves to this physics-based equation, we then use a self-attention layer to reconstruct entire battery capacity loss curves.
Our model exhibits comparable performances to existing models while predicting more information: the entire capacity loss curve instead of cycle life.
This provides more robustness and interpretability: our model does not need to be retrained for a different notion of end-of-life and is backed by physical intuition.
For the efficient and safe use of lithium-ion batteries, diagnosing their current state and predicting future states are crucial. Although there exist many models for the prediction of battery cycle life, they typically have very complex input structures, making it very difficult and expensive to develop such models.
As an alternative, in this work, a model that predicts the nominal end-of-life using only operating conditions as input is proposed.
Specifically, a total of 100 battery degradation data were generated using a pseudo two-dimensional model with three major operating conditions: charging C-rate, ambient temperature and depth-of-discharge.
Then, a Gaussian process regression-based model was developed to predict the nominal end-of-life using these operating conditions as the inputs.
To improve the model accuracy, novel kernels were proposed, which are tailored to each operating condition.
The proposed kernels reduced the lifetime prediction error by 46.62% compared to the conventional kernels.
The early prediction of battery life (EPBL) is vital for enhancing the efficiency and extending the lifespan of lithium batteries.
Traditional models with fixed architectures often encounter underfitting or overfitting issues due to the diverse data distributions in different EPBL tasks.
An interpretable deep learning model of flexible parallel neural network (FPNN) is proposed, which includes an InceptionBlock, a 3D convolutional neural network (CNN), a 2D CNN, and a dual-stream network.
The proposed model effectively extracts electrochemical features from video-like formatted data using the 3D CNN and achieves advanced multi-scale feature abstraction through the InceptionBlock.
The FPNN can adaptively adjust the number of InceptionBlocks to flexibly handle tasks of varying complexity in EPBL.
The test on the MIT dataset shows that the FPNN model achieves outstanding predictive accuracy in EPBL tasks, with MAPEs of 2.47%, 1.29%, 1.08%, and 0.88% when the input cyclic data volumes are 10, 20, 30, and 40, respectively.
The interpretability of the FPNN is mainly reflected in its flexible unit structure and parameter selection: its diverse branching structure enables the model to capture features at different scales, thus allowing the machine to learn informative features.
The approach presented herein provides an accurate, adaptable, and comprehensible solution for early life prediction of lithium batteries, opening new possibilities in the field of battery health monitoring.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) has become increasingly popular in driver fatigue monitoring systems.
Several decomposition methods have been attempted to analyze the EEG signals that are complex, nonlinear and non-stationary and improve the EEG decoding performance in different applications.
However, it remains challenging to extract more distinguishable features from different decomposed components for driver fatigue recognition.
In this work, we propose a novel decomposition-based hybrid ensemble convolutional neural network (CNN) framework to enhance the capability of decoding EEG signals.
Four decomposition methods are employed to disassemble the EEG signals into components of different complexity.
Instead of handcraft features, the CNNs in this framework directly learn from the decomposed components.
In addition, a component-specific batch normalization layer is employed to reduce subject variability.
Moreover, we employ two ensemble modes to integrate the outputs of all CNNs, comprehensively exploiting the diverse information of the decomposed components.
Against the challenging cross-subject driver fatigue recognition task, the models under the framework all showed superior performance to the strong baselines.
Specifically, the performance of different decomposition methods and ensemble modes was further compared.
The results indicated that discrete wavelet transform-based ensemble CNN achieved the highest average classification accuracy of 83.48% among the compared methods.
The proposed framework can be extended to any CNN architecture and be applied to any EEG-related tasks, opening the possibility of extracting more beneficial features from complex EEG data.
Medium-sized touch displays, sized 30 to 50 inches, are becoming more affordable and more widely available.
Prolonged use of such displays can result in arm fatigue or skin irritation, especially when multiple long distance drags are involved.
To address this issue, we present TapDrag, an alternative dragging technique that complements traditional dragging with a simple tapping gesture on both ends of the intended dragging path.
Our experimental evaluation suggests that TapDrag is a viable alternative to traditional dragging with faster task completion times for long distances.
Qualitative user feedback indicates that TapDrag helps prevent skin irritation.
A reduction in arm fatigue remains unconfirmed.
Natural Language Processing (NLP) offers new avenues for personality assessment by leveraging rich, open-ended text, moving beyond traditional questionnaires.
In this study, we address the challenge of modeling long narrative interview where each exceeds 2000 tokens so as to predict Five-Factor Model (FFM) personality traits.
We propose a two-step approach: first, we extract contextual embeddings using sliding-window fine-tuning of pretrained language models; then, we apply Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) with attention mechanisms to integrate long-range dependencies and enhance interpretability.
This hybrid method effectively bridges the strengths of pretrained transformers and sequence modeling to handle long-context data.
Through ablation studies and comparisons with state-of-the-art long-context models such as LLaMA and Longformer, we demonstrate improvements in prediction accuracy, efficiency, and interpretability.
Our results highlight the potential of combining language-based features with long-context modeling to advance personality assessment from life narratives.
Accurate remaining useful life (RUL) predictions are critical to the safe operation of aero-engines.
Currently, the RUL prediction task is mainly a regression paradigm with only mean square error as the loss function and lacks research on feature space structure, the latter of which has shown excellent performance in a large number of studies.
This paper develops a multi-granularity supervised contrastive (MGSC) framework from plain intuition that samples with the same RUL label should be aligned in the feature space, and address the problems of too large minibatch size and unbalanced samples in the implementation.
The RUL prediction with MGSC is implemented on using the proposed multi-phase training strategy.
This paper also demonstrates a simple and scalable basic network structure and validates the proposed MGSC strategy on the CMPASS dataset using a convolutional long short-term memory network as a baseline, which effectively improves the accuracy of RUL prediction.
The U.S. water distribution system contains thousands of miles of pipes constructed from different materials, and of various sizes, and age.
These pipes suffer from physical, environmental, structural and operational stresses, causing deterioration which eventually leads to their failure.
Pipe deterioration results in increased break rates, reduced hydraulic capacity, and detrimental impacts on water quality.
Therefore, it is crucial to use accurate models to forecast deterioration rates along with estimating the remaining useful life of the pipes to implement essential interference plans in order to prevent catastrophic failures.
This paper discusses a computational model that forecasts the RUL of water pipes by applying Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) as well as Adaptive Neural Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS).
These models are trained and tested acquired field data to identify the significant parameters that impact the prediction of RUL.
It is concluded that, on average, with approximately 10\% of wall thickness loss in existing cast iron, ductile iron, asbestos-cement, and steel water pipes, the reduction of the remaining useful life is approximately 50%
As digitization increases, the need to automate various entities becomes crucial for development.
The data generated by the IoT devices need to be processed accurately and in a secure manner.
The basis for the success of such a scenario requires blockchain as a means of unalterable data storage to improve the overall security and trust in the system.
By providing trust in an automated system, with real-time data updates to all stakeholders, an improved form of implementation takes the stage and can help reduce the stress of adaptability to complete automated systems.
This research focuses on a use case with respect to the real time Internet of Things (IoT) network which is deployed at the beach of Chicago Park District.
This real time data which is collected from various sensors is then used to design a predictive model using Deep Neural Networks for estimating the battery life of IoT sensors that is deployed at the beach.
This proposed model could help the government to plan for placing orders of replaceable batteries before time so that there can be an uninterrupted service.
Since this data is sensitive and requires to be secured, the predicted battery life value is stored in blockchain which would be a tamper-proof record of the data.
Driver fatigue detection is of paramount importance for intelligent transportation systems due to its critical role in mitigating road traffic accidents.
While physiological and vehicle dynamics-based methods offer accuracy, they are often intrusive, hardware-dependent, and lack robustness in real-world environments.
Vision-based techniques provide a non-intrusive and scalable alternative, but still face challenges such as poor detection of small or occluded objects and limited multi-scale feature modeling.
To address these issues, this paper proposes YOLO11-CR, a lightweight and efficient object detection model tailored for real-time fatigue detection.
YOLO11-CR introduces two key modules: the Convolution-and-Attention Fusion Module (CAFM), which integrates local CNN features with global Transformer-based context to enhance feature expressiveness; and the Rectangular Calibration Module (RCM), which captures horizontal and vertical contextual information to improve spatial localization, particularly for profile faces and small objects like mobile phones.
Experiments on the DSM dataset demonstrated that YOLO11-CR achieves a precision of 87.17%, recall of 83.86%, mAP@50 of 88.09%, and mAP@50-95 of 55.93%, outperforming baseline models significantly.
Ablation studies further validate the effectiveness of the CAFM and RCM modules in improving both sensitivity and localization accuracy.
These results demonstrate that YOLO11-CR offers a practical and high-performing solution for in-vehicle fatigue monitoring, with strong potential for real-world deployment and future enhancements involving temporal modeling, multi-modal data integration, and embedded optimization.
In this paper, we describe a new algorithm that consists in combining an eye-tracker for minimizing the fatigue of a user during the evaluation process of Interactive Evolutionary Computation.
The approach is then applied to the Interactive One-Max optimization problem.
Virtual human techniques have been used a lot in industrial design in order to consider human factors and ergonomics as early as possible.
The physical status (the physical capacity of virtual human) has been mostly treated as invariable in the current available human simulation tools, while indeed the physical capacity varies along time in an operation and the change of the physical capacity depends on the history of the work as well.
Virtual Human Status is proposed in this paper in order to assess the difficulty of manual handling operations, especially from the physical perspective.
The decrease of the physical capacity before and after an operation is used as an index to indicate the work difficulty.
The reduction of physical strength is simulated in a theoretical approach on the basis of a fatigue model in which fatigue resistances of different muscle groups were regressed from 24 existing maximum endurance time (MET) models.
A framework based on digital human modeling technique is established to realize the comparison of physical status.
An assembly case in airplane assembly is simulated and analyzed under the framework.
The endurance time and the decrease of the joint moment strengths are simulated.
The experimental result in simulated operations under laboratory conditions confirms the feasibility of the theoretical approach.
Remaining useful life prediction (RUL) is one of the key technologies of condition-based maintenance, which is important to maintain the reliability and safety of industrial equipments.
Massive industrial measurement data has effectively improved the performance of the data-driven based RUL prediction method.
While deep learning has achieved great success in RUL prediction, existing methods have difficulties in processing long sequences and extracting information from the sensor and time step aspects.
In this paper, we propose Dual Aspect Self-attention based on Transformer (DAST), a novel deep RUL prediction method, which is an encoder-decoder structure purely based on self-attention without any RNN/CNN module.
DAST consists of two encoders, which work in parallel to simultaneously extract features of different sensors and time steps.
Solely based on self-attention, the DAST encoders are more effective in processing long data sequences, and are capable of adaptively learning to focus on more important parts of input.
Moreover, the parallel feature extraction design avoids mutual influence of information from two aspects.
Experiments on two widely used turbofan engines datasets show that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art RUL prediction methods.
Hundreds of millions of people lack access to electricity.
Decentralised solar-battery systems are key for addressing this whilst avoiding carbon emissions and air pollution, but are hindered by relatively high costs and rural locations that inhibit timely preventative maintenance.
Accurate diagnosis of battery health and prediction of end of life from operational data improves user experience and reduces costs.
But lack of controlled validation tests and variable data quality mean existing lab-based techniques fail to work.
We apply a scaleable probabilistic machine learning approach to diagnose health in 1027 solar-connected lead-acid batteries, each running for 400-760 days, totalling 620 million data rows.
We demonstrate 73% accurate prediction of end of life, eight weeks in advance, rising to 82% at the point of failure.
This work highlights the opportunity to estimate health from existing measurements using `big data' techniques, without additional equipment, extending lifetime and improving performance in real-world applications.
The aviation industry is rapidly evolving, driven by advancements in technology.
Turbofan engines used in commercial aerospace are very complex systems.
The majority of turbofan engine components are susceptible to degradation over the life of their operation.
Turbofan engine degradation has an impact to engine performance, operability, and reliability.
Predicting accurate remaining useful life (RUL) of a commercial turbofan engine based on a variety of complex sensor data is of paramount importance for the safety of the passengers, safety of flight, and for cost effective operations.
That is why it is essential for turbofan engines to be monitored, controlled, and maintained.
RUL predictions can either come from model-based or data-based approaches.
The model-based approach can be very expensive due to the complexity of the mathematical models and the deep expertise that is required in the domain of physical systems.
The data-based approach is more frequently used nowadays thanks to the high computational complexity of computers, the advancements in Machine Learning (ML) models, and advancements in sensors.
This paper is going to be focused on Bi-Directional Long Short-Term Memory (BLSTM) models but will also provide a benchmark of several RUL prediction databased models.
The proposed RUL prediction models are going to be evaluated based on engine failure prediction benchmark dataset Commercial Modular Aero-Propulsion System Simulation (CMAPSS).
The CMAPSS dataset is from NASA which contains turbofan engine run to failure events.
Accurately estimating the remaining useful life (RUL) for degradation systems is crucial in modern prognostic and health management (PHM).
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), initially developed for tasks like image and video recognition, have proven highly effectively in RUL prediction, demonstrating remarkable performance.
However, with the emergence of the Vision Transformer (ViT), a Transformer model tailored for computer vision tasks such as image classification, and its demonstrated superiority over CNNs, there is a natural inclination to explore its potential in enhancing RUL prediction accuracy.
Nonetheless, applying ViT directly to multivariate sensor data for RUL prediction poses challenges, primarily due to the ambiguous nature of spatial information in time series data.
To address this issue, we introduce the PerFormer, a permutation-based vision transformer approach designed to permute multivariate time series data, mimicking spatial characteristics akin to image data, thereby making it suitable for ViT.
To generate the desired permutation matrix, we introduce a novel permutation loss function aimed at guiding the convergence of any matrix towards a permutation matrix.
Our experiments on NASA's C-MAPSS dataset demonstrate the PerFormer's superior performance in RUL prediction compared to state-of-the-art methods employing CNNs, Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), and various Transformer models.
This underscores its effectiveness and potential in PHM applications.
Mental fatigue increases the risk of operator error in language comprehension tasks.
In order to prevent operator performance degradation, we used EEG signals to assess the mental fatigue of operators in human-computer systems.
This study presents an experimental design for fatigue detection in language comprehension tasks.
We obtained EEG signals from a 14-channel wireless EEG detector in 15 healthy participants.
Each participant was given a cognitive test of a language comprehension task, in the form of multiple choice questions, in which pronoun references were selected between nominal and surrogate sentences.
In this paper, the 2400 EEG fragments collected are divided into three data sets according to different utilization rates, namely 1200s data set with 50% utilization rate, 1500s data set with 62.5% utilization rate, and 1800s data set with 75% utilization rate.
In the aspect of feature extraction, different EEG features were extracted, including time domain features, frequency domain features and entropy features, and the effects of different features and feature combinations on classification accuracy were explored.
In terms of classification, we introduced the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) method as the preferred method, It was compared with Least Squares Support Vector Machines(LSSVM),Support Vector Machines(SVM),Logistic Regression (LR), Random Forest(RF), Naive Bayes (NB), K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) and Decision Tree(DT).According to the results, the classification accuracy of convolutional neural network (CNN) is higher than that of other classification methods.
The classification results show that the classification accuracy of 1200S dataset is higher than the other two datasets.
The combination of Frequency and entropy feature and CNN has the highest classification accuracy, which is 85.34%.
We develop a methodology for combined power and loads optimization by coupling a surrogate loads model with an analytical quasi-static Gaussian wake merging model.
The look-up table based fatigue model is developed offline through a series of OpenFast simulations, covering different operational states of a DTU 10 MW reference wind turbine, and verified against large eddy simulations with aeroelastic coupling.
Subsequently, optimal control set points for the TotalControl reference wind power plant are obtained using the analytical model, and tested in a wind farm emulator that is based on large eddy simulations.
The wake model is calibrated online using in a quasi-static closed-loop manner.
Benefits of the closed-loop controller are exhibited via comparison of farm performance against greedy operation and against open-loop control results obtained without feedback or calibration.
Results show that the closed-loop control out performs open-loop control, with farm configurations with deep turbine arrays showcasing the highest gains.
Inclusion of fatigue in the cost function through the developed LUT also leads to interesting insights, with reduced blade root fatigue loading without significant decrease in power production when compared to open-loop control.
A case study is also performed which showcases real world applications for the developed closed-loop controller and the load LUT, in which the closed-loop controller is shown to react to scenarios with turbine operation shut-down, optimizing the yaw angles online to maximize performance for the new layout.
Good nighttime road lighting is critical for driving safety.
To improve the quality of nighttime road lighting, this study used the triangulation method by fusing "EEG evaluation + subjective evaluation + behavioral evaluation" to qualitatively and quantitatively investigate the response characteristics of different correlated color temperature (CCT) (3500K, 4500K, 5500K, 6500K) on drivers' non-visual indicators (mood, alertness, fatigue and reaction time) under specific driving conditions (monotonous driving; waiting for red light and traffic jam; car-following task).
The results showed that the CCT and Task interaction effect is mainly related to individual alertness and reaction time.
Individual subjective emotional experience, subjective visual comfort and psychological security are more responsive to changes in CCT than individual mental fatigue and visual fatigue.
The subjective and objective evaluation results demonstrated that the EEG evaluation indices used in this study could objectively reflect the response characteristics of various non-visual indicators.
The findings also revealed that moderate CCT (4500K) appears to be the most beneficial to drivers in maintaining an ideal state of mind and body during nighttime driving, which is manifested as: good mood experience; it helps drivers maintain a relatively stable level of alterness and to respond quickly to external stimuli; both mental and visual fatigue were relatively low.
This study extends nighttime road lighting design research from the perspective of non-visual effects by using comprehensive neuroergonomic evaluation methods, and it provides a theoretical and empirical basis for the future development of a humanized urban road lighting design evaluation system.
In nature ecosystems, animal life-spans are determined by genes and some other biological characteristics.
Similarly, the software project life-spans are related to some internal or external characteristics.
Analyzing the relations between these characteristics and the project life-span, may help developers, investors, and contributors to control the development cycle of the software project.
The paper provides an insight on the project life-span for a free open source software ecosystem.
The statistical analysis of some project characteristics in GitHub is presented, and we find that the choices of programming languages, the number of files, the label format of the project, and the relevant membership expressions can impact the life-span of a project.
Based on these discovered characteristics, we also propose a prediction model to estimate the project life-span in open source software ecosystems.
These results may help developers reschedule the project in open source software ecosystem.
Many researchers assume that, for software analytics, "more data is better." We write to show that, at least for learning defect predictors, this may not be true.
To demonstrate this, we analyzed hundreds of popular GitHub projects.
These projects ran for 84 months and contained 3,728 commits (median values).
Across these projects, most of the defects occur very early in their life cycle.
Hence, defect predictors learned from the first 150 commits and four months perform just as well as anything else.
This means that, at least for the projects studied here, after the first few months, we need not continually update our defect prediction models.
We hope these results inspire other researchers to adopt a "simplicity-first" approach to their work.
Some domains require a complex and data-hungry analysis.
But before assuming complexity, it is prudent to check the raw data looking for "short cuts" that can simplify the analysis.
Predictive maintenance in aerospace heavily relies on accurate estimation of the remaining useful life of jet engines.
In this paper, we introduce a Hybrid Quantum Recurrent Neural Network framework, combining Quantum Long Short-Term Memory layers with classical dense layers for Remaining Useful Life forecasting on NASA's Commercial Modular Aero-Propulsion System Simulation dataset.
Each Quantum Long Short-Term Memory gate replaces conventional linear transformations with Quantum Depth-Infused circuits, allowing the network to learn high-frequency components more effectively.
Experimental results demonstrate that, despite having fewer trainable parameters, the Hybrid Quantum Recurrent Neural Network achieves up to a 5% improvement over a Recurrent Neural Network based on stacked Long Short-Term Memory layers in terms of mean root-mean-square error and mean absolute error.
Moreover, a thorough comparison of our method with established techniques, including Random Forest, Convolutional Neural Network, and Multilayer Perceptron, demonstrates that our approach, which achieves a Root Mean Squared Error of 15.46, surpasses these baselines by approximately 13.68%, 16.21%, and 7.87%, respectively.
Nevertheless, certain advanced joint architectures still outperform it.
Our findings highlight the potential of hybrid quantum-classical approaches for robust time-series forecasting under limited-data conditions, offering new avenues for enhancing reliability in predictive maintenance tasks.
Accurately predicting the state-of-health (SOH) and remaining useful life (RUL) of lithium-ion batteries is crucial for ensuring the safe and efficient operation of electric vehicles while minimizing associated risks.
However, current deep learning methods are limited in their ability to selectively extract features and model time dependencies for these two parameters.
Moreover, most existing methods rely on traditional recurrent neural networks, which have inherent shortcomings in long-term time-series modeling.
To address these issues, this paper proposes a multi-task targeted learning framework for SOH and RUL prediction, which integrates multiple neural networks, including a multi-scale feature extraction module, an improved extended LSTM, and a dual-stream attention module.
First, a feature extraction module with multi-scale CNNs is designed to capture detailed local battery decline patterns.
Secondly, an improved extended LSTM network is employed to enhance the model's ability to retain long-term temporal information, thus improving temporal relationship modeling.
Building on this, the dual-stream attention module-comprising polarized attention and sparse attention to selectively focus on key information relevant to SOH and RUL, respectively, by assigning higher weights to important features.
Finally, a many-to-two mapping is achieved through the dual-task layer.
To optimize the model's performance and reduce the need for manual hyperparameter tuning, the Hyperopt optimization algorithm is used.
Extensive comparative experiments on battery aging datasets demonstrate that the proposed method reduces the average RMSE for SOH and RUL predictions by 111.3\% and 33.0\%, respectively, compared to traditional and state-of-the-art methods.
The research titled "Early Detection of Post-COVID-19 Fatigue Syndrome using Deep Learning Models" addresses a pressing concern arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Post-COVID-19 Fatigue Syndrome (PCFS) has become a significant health issue affecting individuals who have recovered from COVID-19 infection.
This study harnesses a robust dataset comprising 940 patients from diverse age groups, whose medical records were collected from various hospitals in Iraq over the years 2022, 2022, and 2023.
The primary objective of this research is to develop and evaluate deep learning models for the early detection of PCFS.
Leveraging the power of deep learning, these models are trained on a comprehensive set of clinical and demographic features extracted from the dataset.
The goal is to enable timely identification of PCFS symptoms in post-COVID-19 patients, which can lead to more effective interventions and improved patient outcomes.
The study's findings underscore the potential of deep learning in healthcare, particularly in the context of COVID-19 recovery.
Early detection of PCFS can aid healthcare professionals in providing timely care and support to affected individuals, potentially reducing the long-term impact of this syndrome on their quality of life.
This research contributes to the growing body of knowledge surrounding COVID-19-related health complications and highlights the importance of leveraging advanced machine learning techniques for early diagnosis and intervention.
Keywords: Early Detection, Post-COVID-19 Fatigue Syndrome, Deep Learning Models, Healthcare, COVID-19 Recovery, Medical Data Analysis, Machine Learning, Health Interventions.
Bearing is a key component in industrial machinery and its failure may lead to unwanted downtime and economic loss.
Hence, it is necessary to predict the remaining useful life (RUL) of bearings.
Conventional data-driven approaches of RUL prediction require expert domain knowledge for manual feature extraction and may suffer from data distribution discrepancy between training and test data.
In this study, we propose a novel generalized multiscale feature extraction method with generative adversarial networks.
The adversarial training learns the distribution of training data from different bearings and is introduced for health stage division and RUL prediction.
To capture the sequence feature from a one-dimensional vibration signal, we adapt a U-Net architecture that reconstructs features to process them with multiscale layers in the generator of the adversarial network.
To validate the proposed method, comprehensive experiments on two rotating machinery datasets have been conducted to predict the RUL.
The experimental results show that the proposed feature extraction method can effectively predict the RUL and outperforms the conventional RUL prediction approaches based on deep neural networks.
The implementation code is available at https://github.com/opensuh/GMFE.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning algorithms have considerable potential to influence the prediction of material properties.
Additive materials have a unique property prediction challenge in the form of surface roughness effects on fatigue behavior of structural components.
Traditional approaches using finite element methods to calculate stress risers associated with additively built surfaces have been challenging due to the computational resources required, often taking over a day to calculate a single sample prediction.
To address this performance challenge, Deep Learning has been employed to enable low cycle fatigue life prediction in additive materials in a matter of seconds.
A common challenge in Bicep Curls rehabilitation is muscle compensation, where patients adopt alternative movement patterns when the primary muscle group cannot act due to injury or fatigue, significantly decreasing the effectiveness of rehabilitation efforts.
The problem is exacerbated by the growing trend toward transitioning from in-clinic to home-based rehabilitation, where constant monitoring and correction by physiotherapists are limited.
Developing wearable sensors capable of detecting muscle compensation becomes crucial to address this challenge.
This study aims to gain insights into the optimal deployment of wearable sensors through a comprehensive study of muscle compensation in Bicep Curls.
We collect upper limb joint kinematics and surface electromyography signals (sEMG) from eight muscles in 12 healthy subjects during standard and fatigue stages.
Two muscle synergies are derived from sEMG signals and are analyzed comprehensively along with joint kinematics.
Our findings reveal a shift in the relative contribution of forearm muscles to shoulder muscles, accompanied by a significant increase in activation amplitude for both synergies.
Additionally, more pronounced movement was observed at the shoulder joint during fatigue.
These results suggest focusing on the shoulder muscle activities and joint motions when deploying wearable sensors to effectively detect compensatory movements.
Accelerated life testing (ALT) can significantly reduce the economic, time, and labor costs of life testing in the process of equipment, device, and material research and development (R&D), and improve R&D efficiency.
This paper proposes a performance characterization data prediction (PCDP) method and a life prediction-driven ALT (LP-ALT) method to accelerate the life test of polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs).
The PCDP method can accurately predict different PCD using only four impedances (real and imaginary) corresponding to a high frequency and a medium frequency, greatly shortening the measurement time of offline PCD and reducing the difficulty of life testing.
The test results on an open source life test dataset containing 42 PEMFCs show that compared with the determination coefficient (R^2) results of predicted aging indicators, including limiting current, total mass transport resistance, electrochemically active surface area, and crossover current, obtained based on the measured PCD, the R^2 results of predicted aging indicators based on the predicted PCD is only reduced by 0.04, 0.01, 0.05, and 0.06, respectively.
The LP-ALT method can shorten the life test time through early life prediction.
Test results on the same open-source life test dataset of PEMFCs show that the acceleration ratio of the LP-ALT method can reach 30 times under the premise of ensuring that the minimum R^2 of the prediction results of different aging indicators, including limiting current, total mass transport resistance, and electrochemically active surface area, is not less than 0.89.
Combining the different performance characterization data predicted by the PCDP method and the life prediction of the LP-ALT method, the diagnosis and prognosis of PEMFCs and their components can be achieved.
Accurate estimation of remaining useful life (RUL) of industrial equipment can enable advanced maintenance schedules, increase equipment availability and reduce operational costs.
However, existing deep learning methods for RUL prediction are not completely successful due to the following two reasons.
First, relying on a single objective function to estimate the RUL will limit the learned representations and thus affect the prediction accuracy.
Second, while longer sequences are more informative for modelling the sensor dynamics of equipment, existing methods are less effective to deal with very long sequences, as they mainly focus on the latest information.
To address these two problems, we develop a novel attention-based sequence to sequence with auxiliary task (ATS2S) model.
In particular, our model jointly optimizes both reconstruction loss to empower our model with predictive capabilities (by predicting next input sequence given current input sequence) and RUL prediction loss to minimize the difference between the predicted RUL and actual RUL.
Furthermore, to better handle longer sequence, we employ the attention mechanism to focus on all the important input information during training process.
Finally, we propose a new dual-latent feature representation to integrate the encoder features and decoder hidden states, to capture rich semantic information in data.
We conduct extensive experiments on four real datasets to evaluate the efficacy of the proposed method.
Experimental results show that our proposed method can achieve superior performance over 13 state-of-the-art methods consistently.
Dairy farmers should decide to keep or cull a cow based on an objective assessment of her likely performance in the herd.
For this purpose, farmers need to identify more resilient cows, which can cope better with farm conditions and complete more lactations.
This decision-making process is inherently complex, with significant environmental and economic implications.
In this study, we develop an AI-driven model to predict cow longevity using historical multivariate time-series data recorded from birth.
Leveraging advanced AI techniques, specifically Multi-Head Attention Transformers, we analysed approximately 780,000 records from 19,000 unique cows across 7 farms in Australia.
The results demonstrate that our model achieves an overall determination coefficient of 83% in predicting herd life across the studied farms, highlighting its potential for practical application in dairy herd management.
With the proliferation of edge smart devices and the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) technologies, intelligent fatigue detection has become one of the most-used methods in our daily driving.
To improve the performance of the detection model, a series of techniques have been developed.
However, existing work still leaves much to be desired, such as privacy disclosure and communication cost.
To address these issues, we propose FedSup, a client-edge-cloud framework for privacy and efficient fatigue detection.
Inspired by the federated learning technique, FedSup intelligently utilizes the collaboration between client, edge, and cloud server to realizing dynamic model optimization while protecting edge data privacy.
Moreover, to reduce the unnecessary system communication overhead, we further propose a Bayesian convolutional neural network (BCNN) approximation strategy on the clients and an uncertainty weighted aggregation algorithm on the cloud to enhance the central model training efficiency.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that the FedSup framework is suitable for IoV scenarios and outperforms other mainstream methods.
Remaining useful life (RUL) refers to the expected remaining lifespan of a component or system.
Accurate RUL prediction is critical for prognostic and health management and for maintenance planning.
In this work, we address three prevalent challenges in data-driven RUL prediction, namely the handling of high dimensional input features, the robustness to noise in sensor data and prognostic datasets, and the capturing of the time-dependency between system degradation and RUL prediction.
We devise a highly accurate RUL prediction model with uncertainty quantification, which integrates and leverages the advantages of deep learning and nonstationary Gaussian process regression (DL-NSGPR).
We examine and benchmark our model against other advanced data-driven RUL prediction models using the turbofan engine dataset from the NASA prognostic repository.
Our computational experiments show that the DL-NSGPR predictions are highly accurate with root mean square error 1.7 to 6.2 times smaller than those of competing RUL models.
Furthermore, the results demonstrate that RUL uncertainty bounds with the proposed DL-NSGPR are both valid and significantly tighter than other stochastic RUL prediction models.
We unpack and discuss the reasons for this excellent performance of the DL-NSGPR.
A statistical framework is presented enabling optimal sampling and analysis of constant life fatigue data.
Protocols using Bayesian maximum entropy sampling are built based on conventional staircase and stress step methods, reducing the requirement of prior knowledge for data collection.
The Bayesian Staircase method shows improved parameter estimation efficiency, and the Bayesian Stress Step method shows equal accuracy to the standard method at larger step size allowing experimentalists to lessen concerns of loading history.
Statistical methods for determining model suitability are shown, highlighting the influence of protocol.
Experimental validation is performed, showing the applicability of the methods in laboratory testing.
Accurate prediction of the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) of rolling bearings is crucial in industrial production, yet existing models often struggle with limited generalization capabilities due to their inability to fully process all vibration signal patterns.
We introduce a novel multi-input autoregressive model to address this challenge in RUL prediction for bearings.
Our approach uniquely integrates vibration signals with previously predicted Health Indicator (HI) values, employing feature fusion to output current window HI values.
Through autoregressive iterations, the model attains a global receptive field, effectively overcoming the limitations in generalization.
Furthermore, we innovatively incorporate a segmentation method and multiple training iterations to mitigate error accumulation in autoregressive models.
Empirical evaluation on the PMH2012 dataset demonstrates that our model, compared to other backbone networks using similar autoregressive approaches, achieves significantly lower Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and Score.
Notably, it outperforms traditional autoregressive models that use label values as inputs and non-autoregressive networks, showing superior generalization abilities with a marked lead in RMSE and Score metrics.
Health Indicators (HIs) are essential for predicting system failures in predictive maintenance.
While methods like RaPP (Reconstruction along Projected Pathways) improve traditional HI approaches by leveraging autoencoder latent spaces, their performance can be hindered by both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties.
In this paper, we propose a novel framework that integrates uncertainty quantification into autoencoder-based latent spaces, enhancing RaPP-generated HIs.
We demonstrate that separating aleatoric uncertainty from epistemic uncertainty and cross combining HI information is the driver of accuracy improvements in Remaining Useful Life (RUL) prediction.
Our method employs both standard and variational autoencoders to construct these HIs, which are then used to train a machine learning model for RUL prediction.
Benchmarked on the NASA C-MAPSS turbofan dataset, our approach outperforms traditional HI-based methods and end-to-end RUL prediction models and is competitive with RUL estimation methods.
These results underscore the importance of uncertainty quantification in health assessment and showcase its significant impact on predictive performance when incorporated into the HI construction process.
Background: Overweight and obesity are an increasing phenomenon worldwide.
Predicting future overweight or obesity early in the childhood reliably could enable a successful intervention by experts.
While a lot of research has been done using explanatory modeling methods, capability of machine learning, and predictive modeling, in particular, remain mainly unexplored.
In predictive modeling models are validated with previously unseen examples, giving a more accurate estimate of their performance and generalization ability in real-life scenarios.
Objective: To find and review existing overweight or obesity research from the perspective of employing childhood data and predictive modeling methods.
Methods: The initial phase included bibliographic searches using relevant search terms in PubMed, IEEE database and Google Scholar.
The second phase consisted of iteratively searching references of potential studies and recent research that cite the potential studies.
Results: Eight research articles and three review articles were identified as relevant for this review.
Conclusions: Prediction models with high performance either have a relatively short time period to predict or/and are based on late childhood data.
Logistic regression is currently the most often used method in forming the prediction models.
In addition to child's own weight and height information, maternal weight status or body mass index was often used as predictors in the models.
Despite the obvious advantage of simple life forms capable of fast replication, different levels of cognitive complexity have been achieved by living systems in terms of their potential to cope with environmental uncertainty.
Against the inevitable cost associated to detecting environmental cues and responding to them in adaptive ways, we conjecture that the potential for predicting the environment can overcome the expenses associated to maintaining costly, complex structures.
We present a minimal formal model grounded in information theory and selection, in which successive generations of agents are mapped into transmitters and receivers of a coded message.
Our agents are guessing machines and their capacity to deal with environments of different complexity defines the conditions to sustain more complex agents.
Real-life mobile phone data may contain noisy instances, which is a fundamental issue for building a prediction model with many potential negative consequences.
The complexity of the inferred model may increase, may arise overfitting problem, and thereby the overall prediction accuracy of the model may decrease.
In this paper, we address these issues and present a robust prediction model for real-life mobile phone data of individual users, in order to improve the prediction accuracy of the model.
In our robust model, we first effectively identify and eliminate the noisy instances from the training dataset by determining a dynamic noise threshold using naive Bayes classifier and laplace estimator, which may differ from user-to-user according to their unique behavioral patterns.
After that, we employ the most popular rule-based machine learning classification technique, i.e., decision tree, on the noise-free quality dataset to build the prediction model.
Experimental results on the real-life mobile phone datasets (e.g., phone call log) of individual mobile phone users, show the effectiveness of our robust model in terms of precision, recall and f-measure.
The problem of the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) prediction, aiming at providing an accurate estimate of the remaining time from the current predicting moment to the complete failure of the device, has gained significant attention from researchers in recent years.
In this paper, to overcome the shortcomings of rigid combination for temporal and spatial features in most existing RUL prediction approaches, a spatial-temporal homogeneous feature extractor, named Dual-Mixer model, is firstly proposed.
Flexible layer-wise progressive feature fusion is employed to ensure the homogeneity of spatial-temporal features and enhance the prediction accuracy.
Secondly, the Feature Space Global Relationship Invariance (FSGRI) training method is introduced based on supervised contrastive learning.
This method maintains the consistency of relationships among sample features with their degradation patterns during model training, simplifying the subsequently regression task in the output layer and improving the model's performance in RUL prediction.
Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method is validated through comparisons with other latest research works on the C-MAPSS dataset.
The Dual-Mixer model demonstrates superiority across most metrics, while the FSGRI training method shows an average improvement of 7.00% and 2.41% in RMSE and MAPE, respectively, for all baseline models.
Our experiments and model code are publicly available at https://github.com/fuen1590/PhmDeepLearningProjects.
The failures of train wheels account for disruptions of train operations and even a large portion of train derailments.
Remaining useful life (RUL) of a wheelset measures the how soon the next failure will arrive, and the failure type reveals how severe the failure will be.
RUL prediction is a regression task, whereas failure type is a classification task.
In this paper, we propose a multi-task learning approach to jointly accomplish these two tasks by using a common input space to achieve more desirable results.
We develop a convex optimization formulation to integrate both least square loss and the negative maximum likelihood of logistic regression, and model the joint sparsity as the L2/L1 norm of the model parameters to couple feature selection across tasks.
The experiment results show that our method outperforms the single task learning method by 3% in prediction accuracy.
The origin of life and the origin of the universe are among the most important problems of science and they might be inextricably linked.
Hydro-gravitational-dynamics (HGD) cosmology predicts hydrogen-helium gas planets in clumps as the dark matter of galaxies, with millions of planets per star.
This unexpected prediction is supported by quasar microlensing of a galaxy and a flood of new data from space telescopes.
Supernovae from stellar over-accretion of planets produce the chemicals (C, N, O, P etc.) and abundant liquid water domains required for first life and the means for wide scattering of life prototypes.
The first life likely occurred promptly following the plasma to gas transition 300,000 years after the big bang while the planets were still warm, and interchanges of material between planets constituted essentially a cosmological primordial soup.
Images from optical, radio, and infrared space telescopes suggest life on Earth was neither first nor inevitable.
Data-driven methods for remaining useful life (RUL) prediction normally learn features from a fixed window size of a priori of degradation, which may lead to less accurate prediction results on different datasets because of the variance of local features.
This paper proposes a method for RUL prediction which depends on a trend feature representing the overall time sequence of degradation.
Complete ensemble empirical mode decomposition, followed by a reconstruction procedure, is created to build the trend features.
The probability distribution of sensors' measurement learned by conditional neural processes is used to evaluate the trend features.
With the best trend feature, a data-driven model using long short-term memory is developed to predict the RUL.
To prove the effectiveness of the proposed method, experiments on a benchmark C-MAPSS dataset are carried out and compared with other state-of-the-art methods.
Comparison results show that the proposed method achieves the smallest root mean square values in prediction of all RUL.
Reaching disability limits an individual's ability in performing daily tasks.
Surface Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) offers a non-invasive solution to restore the lost abilities.
However, inducing desired movements using FES is still an open engineering problem.
This problem is accentuated by the complexities of human arms' neuromechanics and the variations across individuals.
Reinforcement Learning (RL) emerges as a promising approach to govern customised control rules for different subjects and settings.
Yet, one remaining challenge of using RL to control FES is unobservable muscle fatigue that progressively changes as an unknown function of the stimulation, breaking the Markovian assumption of RL.
In this work, we present a method to address the unobservable muscle fatigue issue, allowing our RL controller to achieve higher control performances.
Our method is based on a Gaussian State-Space Model (GSSM) that utilizes recurrent neural networks to learn Markovian state-spaces from partial observations.
The GSSM is used as a filter that converts the observations into the state-space representation for RL to preserve the Markovian assumption.
Here, we start with presenting the modification of the original GSSM to address an overconfident issue.
We then present the interaction between RL and the modified GSSM, followed by the setup for FES control learning.
We test our RL-GSSM system on a planar reaching setting in simulation using a detailed neuromechanical model and show that the GSSM can help RL maintain its control performance against the fatigue.
